The long-term measurement records from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site on the Southern Great Plains show evidence of a bias in the ECMWF model's surface irradiance. Based on previous studies, which have suggested that summertime shallow clouds may contribute to the bias, an evaluation of 146 days with observed nonprecipitating fair-weather cumulus clouds is performed. In-cloud liquid water path and effective radius are both overestimated in the model with liquid water path dominating to produce clouds that are too reflective. These are compensated by occasional cloud-free days in the model such that the fair-weather cumulus regime overall does not contribute significantly to the multiyear daytime mean surface irradiance bias of 23 W m(-2). To further explore the origin of the bias, observed and modeled cloud fraction profiles over 6 years are classified and sorted based on the surface irradiance bias associated with each sample pair. Overcast low cloud conditions during the spring and fall seasons are identified as a major contributor. For samples with low cloud present in both observations and model, opposing surface irradiance biases are found for overcast and broken cloud cover conditions. A reduction of cloud liquid to a third for broken low clouds and an increase by a factor of 1.5 in overcast situations improves agreement with the observed liquid water path distribution. This approach of combining the model shortwave bias with a cloud classification helps to identify compensating errors in the model, providing guidance for a targeted improvement of cloud parameterizations.
In this study, the representation of marine boundary layer clouds is investigated in the ECMWF model using observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) mobile facility deployment to Graciosa Island in the North Atlantic. Systematic errors in the occurrence of clouds, liquid water path, precipitation, and surface radiation are assessed in the operational model for a 19-month-long period. Boundary layer clouds were the most frequently observed cloud type but were underestimated by 10% in the model. Systematic but partially compensating surface radiation errors exist and can be linked to opposing cloud cover and liquid water path errors in broken (shallow cumulus) and overcast (stratocumulus) low-cloud regimes, consistent with previously reported results from the continental ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. Occurrence of precipitation is overestimated by a factor of 1.5 at cloud base and by a factor of 2 at the surface, suggesting deficiencies in both the warm-rain formation and subcloud evaporation parameterizations. A single-column version of the ECMWF model is used to test combined changes to the parameterizations of boundary layer, autoconversion/accretion, and rain evaporation processes at Graciosa. Low-cloud occurrence, liquid water path, radiation biases, and precipitation occurrence are all significantly improved when compared to the ARM observations. Initial results from the modified parameterizations in the full model show improvement in the global top-of-the-atmosphere shortwave radiation, suggesting the reduced errors in the comparison at Graciosa are more widely applicable to boundary layer cloud around the globe.
Microphysical processes and cloud-radiation interaction occur on spatial scales of variability smaller than those represented explicitly in global weather forecasting and climate models. It is therefore necessary to parametrize the unresolved heterogeneity of humidity and cloud condensate in order to predict process rates accurately. Ground-based observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement sites located in various climatic regions of the world provide a source of high-temporal-resolution observations of cloud condensate. A number of different retrieval products for cloud condensate are assessed for the different geographical regions, years and seasons. The retrieval reliability varies with cloud type, but for cloud categories largely unaffected by precipitation a comparison across sites and longer time periods is possible. These observations confirm previously documented variability behaviour as a function of cloud fraction, but also reveal a systematic regime dependence that is not captured by existing parametrizations. Condensate variability measured as a fractional standard deviation (FSD) in warm boundary-layer clouds is greater in the Tropics than in mid and high latitudes for scenes with comparable cloud type and fraction, with the observed FSD varying from 1.2 in the Tropics to 0.4 in the Arctic. A parametrization of the FSD of cloud liquid condensate based on the grid-box mean total water amount and cloud fraction is formulated and shown to capture the observed range of FSD values better across different geographical sites and different seasons. The regime dependence of FSD for cirrus cloud is less pronounced than that for liquid clouds and is found largely to agree with FSD values previously derived from satellite observations. 2016 Royal Meteorological Society.
