The long-term measurement records from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site on the Southern Great Plains show evidence of a bias in the ECMWF model's surface irradiance. Based on previous studies, which have suggested that summertime shallow clouds may contribute to the bias, an evaluation of 146 days with observed nonprecipitating fair-weather cumulus clouds is performed. In-cloud liquid water path and effective radius are both overestimated in the model with liquid water path dominating to produce clouds that are too reflective. These are compensated by occasional cloud-free days in the model such that the fair-weather cumulus regime overall does not contribute significantly to the multiyear daytime mean surface irradiance bias of 23 W m(-2). To further explore the origin of the bias, observed and modeled cloud fraction profiles over 6 years are classified and sorted based on the surface irradiance bias associated with each sample pair. Overcast low cloud conditions during the spring and fall seasons are identified as a major contributor. For samples with low cloud present in both observations and model, opposing surface irradiance biases are found for overcast and broken cloud cover conditions. A reduction of cloud liquid to a third for broken low clouds and an increase by a factor of 1.5 in overcast situations improves agreement with the observed liquid water path distribution. This approach of combining the model shortwave bias with a cloud classification helps to identify compensating errors in the model, providing guidance for a targeted improvement of cloud parameterizations.
In this study, the representation of marine boundary layer clouds is investigated in the ECMWF model using observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) mobile facility deployment to Graciosa Island in the North Atlantic. Systematic errors in the occurrence of clouds, liquid water path, precipitation, and surface radiation are assessed in the operational model for a 19-month-long period. Boundary layer clouds were the most frequently observed cloud type but were underestimated by 10% in the model. Systematic but partially compensating surface radiation errors exist and can be linked to opposing cloud cover and liquid water path errors in broken (shallow cumulus) and overcast (stratocumulus) low-cloud regimes, consistent with previously reported results from the continental ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. Occurrence of precipitation is overestimated by a factor of 1.5 at cloud base and by a factor of 2 at the surface, suggesting deficiencies in both the warm-rain formation and subcloud evaporation parameterizations. A single-column version of the ECMWF model is used to test combined changes to the parameterizations of boundary layer, autoconversion/accretion, and rain evaporation processes at Graciosa. Low-cloud occurrence, liquid water path, radiation biases, and precipitation occurrence are all significantly improved when compared to the ARM observations. Initial results from the modified parameterizations in the full model show improvement in the global top-of-the-atmosphere shortwave radiation, suggesting the reduced errors in the comparison at Graciosa are more widely applicable to boundary layer cloud around the globe.
Microphysical processes and cloud-radiation interaction occur on spatial scales of variability smaller than those represented explicitly in global weather forecasting and climate models. It is therefore necessary to parametrize the unresolved heterogeneity of humidity and cloud condensate in order to predict process rates accurately. Ground-based observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement sites located in various climatic regions of the world provide a source of high-temporal-resolution observations of cloud condensate. A number of different retrieval products for cloud condensate are assessed for the different geographical regions, years and seasons. The retrieval reliability varies with cloud type, but for cloud categories largely unaffected by precipitation a comparison across sites and longer time periods is possible. These observations confirm previously documented variability behaviour as a function of cloud fraction, but also reveal a systematic regime dependence that is not captured by existing parametrizations. Condensate variability measured as a fractional standard deviation (FSD) in warm boundary-layer clouds is greater in the Tropics than in mid and high latitudes for scenes with comparable cloud type and fraction, with the observed FSD varying from 1.2 in the Tropics to 0.4 in the Arctic. A parametrization of the FSD of cloud liquid condensate based on the grid-box mean total water amount and cloud fraction is formulated and shown to capture the observed range of FSD values better across different geographical sites and different seasons. The regime dependence of FSD for cirrus cloud is less pronounced than that for liquid clouds and is found largely to agree with FSD values previously derived from satellite observations. 2016 Royal Meteorological Society.
Observations made at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) site during uniform nonprecipitating stratocumulus cloud conditions for a 14-h period are used to examine cloud-top entrainment processes and parameterizations. The observations from a vertically pointing Doppler cloud radar provide estimates of vertical velocity variance and energy dissipation rate (EDR) terms in the parameterized turbulent kinetic energy (TKE) budget of the entrainment zone. Hourly averages of the vertical velocity variance term in the TKE entrainment formulation correlated strongly (r = 0.72) with the dissipation rate term in the entrainment zone, with an increased correlation (r = 0.92) when accounting for the nighttime decoupling of the boundary layer. Independent estimates of entrainment rates were obtained from an inversion-height budget using the local time derivative and horizontal advection of cloud-top height together with large-scale vertical velocity at the boundary layer inversion from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) reanalysis model. The mean entrainment rate from the inversion-height budget during the 14-h period was 0.74 0.15 cm s-1and was used to calculate bulk coefficients for entrainment parameterizations based on convective velocity scale w* and TKE budgets of the entrainment zone. The hourly values of entrainment rates calculated using these coefficients exhibited good agreement with those calculated from the inversion-height budget associated with substantial changes in surface buoyancy production and cloud-top radiative cooling. The results indicate a strong potential for making entrainment rate estimates directly from radar vertical velocity variance and the EDR measurements. 2016 American Meteorological Society.
At the beginning of 2009 new space-borne observations of dry-air column-averaged mole fractions of atmospheric methane (XCH4) became available from the Thermal And Near infrared Sensor for carbon Observations-Fourier Transform Spectrometer (TANSO-FTS) instrument on board the Greenhouse Gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT). Until April 2012 concurrent methane (CH4) retrievals were provided by the SCanning Imaging Absorption spectroMeter for Atmospheric CartograpHY (SCIAMACHY) instrument on board the ENVironmental SATellite (ENVISAT). The GOSAT and SCIAMACHY XCH4 retrievals can be compared during the period of overlap. We estimate monthly average CH4 emissions between January 2010 and December 2011, using the TM5-4DVAR inverse modelling system. In addition to satellite data, high-accuracy measurements from the Cooperative Air Sampling Network of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Earth System Research Laboratory (NOAA ESRL) are used, providing strong constraints on the remote surface atmosphere. We discuss five inversion scenarios that make use of different GOSAT and SCIAMACHY XCH4 retrieval products, including two sets of GOSAT proxy retrievals processed independently by the Netherlands Institute for Space Research (SRON)/Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), and the University of Leicester (UL), and the RemoTeC "Full-Physics" (FP) XCH4 retrievals available from SRON/KIT. The GOSAT-based inversions show significant reductions in the root mean square (rms) difference between retrieved and modelled XCH4, and require much smaller bias corrections compared to the inversion using SCIAMACHY retrievals, reflecting the higher precision and relative accuracy of the GOSAT XCH4. Despite the large differences between the GOSAT and SCIAMACHY retrievals, 2-year average emission maps show overall good agreement among all satellite-based inversions, with consistent flux adjustment patterns, particularly across equatorial Africa and North America. Over North America, the satellite inversions result in a significant redistribution of CH4 emissions from North-East to South-Central United States. This result is consistent with recent independent studies suggesting a systematic underestimation of CH4 emissions from North American fossil fuel sources in bottom-up inventories, likely related to natural gas production facilities. Furthermore, all four satellite inversions yield lower CH4 fluxes across the Congo basin compared to the NOAA-only scenario, but higher emissions across tropical East Africa. The GOSAT and SCIAMACHY inversions show similar performance when validated against independent shipboard and aircraft observations, and XCH4 retrievals available from the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON).
The atmospheric boundary layer mixing height (MH) is an important bulk parameter in air quality (AQ) modelling. Formulating this parameter under statically stable conditions, such as in the Arctic, has historically been difficult. In an effort to improve AQ modelling capacity in North America, MH is studied in two geographically distinct areas: the Arctic (Barrow, Alaska) and the southern Great Plains (Lamont, Oklahoma). Observational data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program, Climate Research Facility and numerical weather forecasting data from Environment Canada's Regional Global Environmental Multiscale (GEM15) model have been used in order to examine the suitability of available parameterizations for MH under statically stable conditions and also to compare the level of agreement between observed and modelled MH. The analysis period is 1 October 2011 to 1 October 2012. The observations alone suggest that profile methods are preferred over surface methods in defining MH under statically stable conditions. Surface methods exhibit poorer comparison statistics with observations than profile methods. In addition, the fitted constants for surface methods are site-dependent, precluding their applicability for modelling under general conditions. The comparison of observations and GEM15 MH suggests that although the agreement is acceptable in Lamont, the default model surface method contributes to a consistent overprediction of MH in Barrow in all seasons. An alternative profile method for MH is suggested based on the bulk Richardson number. This method is shown to reduce the model bias in Barrow by a factor of two without affecting model performance in Lamont.
We discuss the role of atmospheric gravity waves in modulating cloud radiative and dynamical properties over the southeast Pacific. Satellite imagery and satellite-retrieved cloud properties during October 2008 illustrate three distinct episodes of horizontal propagation of gravity wave trains across the large-scale stratocumulus (Sc) cloud deck capping the local marine boundary layer. In one period, 79 October 2008, the waves modulated cloud-top-height by up to 400 m peak-to-trough, propagating perpendicular to the synoptic boundary layer flow with phase speed 15.3 m s1, period approximate to 1 h and horizontal wavelength 55 km. The gravity waves were observed to be non-dispersive. These waves were first evident in the cloud deck near 30 degrees S, 85 degrees W during a 24 h period beginning at midday on 7 October 2008, and propagated northeastward toward the Peruvian coast for the following 48 h. During this time they induced both reversible and non-reversible changes in cloud-radiative and cloud-dynamic properties, such that areas of clear sky developed in the troughs of passing wave-fronts. These pockets of open cells persisted long after the passage of the gravity waves, advecting northwestward with the background wind. Using the analysis fields of the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts in conjunction with infrared and microwave satellite imagery, we show that these gravity waves emerged from a disturbed subtropical jet stream. The radiant of the waves was coincident in all cases with centres of large negative residuals in nonlinear balance, suggesting that geostrophic readjustment of sharply divergent flows associated with the disturbed jet provided a source for the wave energy. Conversely, gravity waves were not observed in more quiescent jet conditions. This case study highlights the important and irreversible effects that gravity waves propagating in the troposphere can have on cloud radiative properties (and hence surface radiation budgets) over a very wide area. It also highlights the importance of synoptic influence on Sc-covered marine boundary layers. Copyright (c) 2012 Royal Meteorological Society
This paper examines two co-located satellite-derived data sets over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site in central Oklahoma. The data sets, one derived from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)/Langley Surface Meteorology and Solar Energy (SSE) Data Base and the other from the State University of New York at Albany (SUNY/Albany) satellite-based model, are compared with each other as well as with a high-quality surface station located at the Central Facility (CF) of the ARM/SGP site. The purpose of the study is two-fold: (1) to benchmark the two satellite-derived data sets with each other and (2) to examine the spatial variability of the higher-resolution SUNY data within the NASA cell that overlays the ground station. The results show variations in seasonal biases between the two satellite-derived data sets and the ground station. In addition, the distribution of high-resolution values within a NASA grid cell varies from month to month possibly due to variations in cloud conditions and surface reflectance characteristics that occur across the seasons. Copyright 2010, American Solar Energy Society.
Monsoon rainfall over South Asia has decreased during the last 5 to 6 decades according to several sets of observations. Although sea surface temperature (SST) has risen across the Indo-Pacific warm pool during this period, the expected accompanying increased rainfall has occurred only in the tropical western Pacific. The above changes noted in observations are also seen in a coupled climate model, but only when the model includes the recent increase in greenhouse gas concentration. The hypothesis that the robust rise in SST over the warm pool, perhaps anchored by an increase in greenhouse gas concentrations, is instrumental in the east- west shift in monsoon rainfall (enhanced rainfall over tropical western Pacific and decreased rainfall over South Asia) is proposed. A suite of controlled experiments with an atmospheric general circulation model has been performed to isolate the impact of regional SST warming trends on the dryness over South Asia. Model experiments support the hypothesis that the rising SST trend over the tropical western Pacific has changed the atmospheric circulation: over the Bay of Bengal more dry and cool air is advected from the northeast than previously. Moist static energy budget diagnostics on the model solutions identify the sources for this east- west shift. SST warming over the warm pool has accelerated in recent decades. Therefore, a close monitoring of that warming is important for long-term variations of monsoon rainfall. The inconsistency in the amplitude of drying over South Asia among the various land-based rainfall observations and lack of sustained rainfall observations over the open oceans, however, poses constraints in the results.
Measurements of the effect of water uptake on particulate light extinction or scattering made at two locations during the 2010 Carbonaceous Aerosols and Radiative Effects Study (CARES) study around Sacramento, CA are reported. The observed influence of water uptake, characterized through the dimensionless optical hygroscopicity parameter gamma, is compared with calculations constrained by observed particle size distributions and size-dependent particle composition. A closure assessment has been carried out that allowed for determination of the average hygroscopic growth factors (GFs) at 85% relative humidity and the dimensionless hygroscopicity parameter kappa for oxygenated organic aerosol (OA) and for supermicron particles (defined here as particles with aerodynamic diameters between 1 and 2.5 microns), yielding kappa = 0.1-0.15 and 0.9-1.0, respectively. The derived range of oxygenated OA kappa values are in line with previous observations. The relatively large values for supermicron particles is consistent with substantial contributions of sea-salt-containing particles in this size range. Analysis of time-dependent variations in the supermicron particle hygroscopicity suggest that atmospheric processing, specifically chloride displacement by nitrate and the accumulation of secondary organics on supermicron particles, can lead to substantial depression of the observed GF.
Large-scale atmospheric models (LSAMs) that utilize the Monte Carlo Independent Column Approximation (McICA) have, thus far, paired McICA only with two-stream approximations (TSAs) of the radiative transfer equation. In this study, the short-wave TSA is exchanged for a Monte Carlo (MC) photon transport model. More than 44 000 domains of cloud properties retrieved from A-Train satellite data, each measuring 256 km in length, were used to assess the noise characteristics of TSA- and MC-based McICA models. It appears as though application of an MC algorithm in McICA will be both beneficial and tractable for LSAMs. This is because known levels of acceptable radiative noise produced by TSA-based McICAs can be achieved with small numbers of MC photons. The greatest concern with the TSA McICA has been noise associated with heating rates for cloudy layers. But with as few as 500-1000 photons per simulation, the MC McICA reduces cloudy layer heating rate errors by typically approximate to 20%. Furthermore, since MC models can utilize detailed descriptions of cloud particle scattering phase functions and TSAs use only corresponding asymmetry parameters, TSA-based McICAs, on average, overestimate all-sky top-of-atmosphere reflected flux density at small solar zenith angles (0) by approximate to 3 W m(-2) and underestimate it at large (0) by approximate to 1 W m(-2); vice versa for surface net flux density. Systematic biases such as these are important when attempting to balance an LSAM's energy budgets and when making detailed estimates of radiative forcings due to anthropogenic activities.
Solar flux densities and heating rates predicted by a broadband, multilayer -Eddington two-stream approximation are compared to estimates from a Monte Carlo model that uses detailed descriptions of cloud particle phase functions and facilitates locally nonzero net horizontal flux densities. Results are presented as domain averages for 256-km sections of cloudy atmospheres inferred from A-Train satellite data: 32 632 samples for January 2007 between 70 degrees S and 70 degrees N with total cloud fraction C > 0.05. The domains are meant to represent grid cells of a conventional global climate model and consist of columns of infinite width across track and x approximate to 1 km along track. The -Eddington was applied in independent column approximation (ICA) mode, while the Monte Carlo was applied using both x (i.e., ICA) and x approximate to 1 km. Mean-bias errors due to the -Eddington's neglect of phase function details and horizontal transfer, as functions of cosine of solar zenith angle (0), are comparable in magnitude and have the same signs. With minor dependence on cloud particle sizes, the -Eddington over- and underestimates top-of-atmosphere reflected flux density for the cloudy portion of domains by similar to 10 W m(-2) for (0) > 0.9 and -3 W m(-2) for (0) < 0.2; full domain averages are similar to 8 and -2 W m(-2), respectively, given mean C > 0.75 for all (0). These errors are reversed in sign, but slightly larger, for net surface flux densities. The -Eddington underestimates total atmospheric absorption by similar to 2.5 W m(-2) on average. Hence, -Eddington mean-bias errors for domain-averaged layer heating rates are usually negative but can be positive. Rarely do they exceed +/- 10% of the mean heating rate; the largest errors are when the sides of liquid clouds are irradiated by direct beams.
Composite analysis of mature near-equatorial oceanic mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) during the active stage of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) shows where different hydrometeor types occur relative to convective updraft and stratiform midlevel inflow layers. The National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) S-PolKa radar observed these MCSs during the Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation/Atmospheric Radiation Measurement-MJO Investigation Experiment (DYNAMO/AMIE). NCAR's particle identification algorithm (PID) is applied to S-PolKa's polarimetric data to identify the dominant hydrometeor type in each radar sample volume. Combining S-PolKa's Doppler velocity data with the PID demonstrates that hydrometeors have a systematic relationship to the airflow within mature MCSs. In the convective region, moderate rain occurs within the updraft core; the heaviest rain occurs just downwind of the core; wet aggregates occur immediately below the melting layer; narrow zones containing graupel/rimed aggregates occur just downstream of the updraft core at midlevels; dry aggregates dominate above the melting level; and smaller ice particles occur along the edges of the convective zone. In the stratiform region, rain intensity decreases toward the anvil; melting aggregates occur in horizontally extensive but vertically thin regions at the melting layer; intermittent pockets of graupel/rimed aggregates occur atop the melting layer; dry aggregates and small ice particles occur sequentially above the melting level; and horizontally oriented ice crystals occur between similar to 10 degrees C and similar to 20 degrees C in turbulent air above the descending midlevel inflow, suggesting enhanced depositional growth of dendrites. The organization of hydrometeors within the midlevel inflow layer is insensitive to the presence or absence of a leading convective line.
To quantify the contributions of fossil and biomass sources to the wintertime Arctic aerosol burden source apportionment is reported for elemental (EC) and organic carbon (OC) fractions of six PM10samples collected during a wintertime (2012-2013) campaign in Barrow, AK. Radiocarbon apportionment of EC indicates that fossil sources contribute an average of 68 9% (0.01-0.07 g m-3) in midwinter decreasing to 49 6% (0.02 g m-3) in late winter. The mean contribution of fossil sources to OC for the campaign was stable at 38 8% (0.04-0.32 g m-3). Samples were also analyzed for organic tracers, including levoglucosan, for use in a chemical mass balance (CMB) source apportionment model. The CMB model was able to apportion 24-53% and 99% of the OC and EC burdens, respectively, during the campaign, with fossil OC contributions ranging from 25 to 74% (0.02-0.09 g m-3) and fossil EC contributions ranging from 73 to 94% (0.03-0.07 g m-3). Back trajectories identified two major wintertime source regions to Barrow: the Russian and North American Arctic. Atmospheric lifetimes of levoglucosan, ranging from 50 to 320 h, revealed variability in wintertime atmospheric processing of this biomass burning tracer. This study allows for unambiguous apportionment of EC to fossil fuel and biomass combustion sources and intercomparison with CMB modeling. 2015 American Chemical Society.
We present one of the first estimates of the global distribution of CO2 surface fluxes using total column CO2 measurements retrieved by the SRON-KIT RemoTeC algorithm from the Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT). We derive optimized fluxes from June 2009 to December 2010. We estimate fluxes from surface CO2 measurements to use as baselines for comparing GOSAT data-derived fluxes. Assimilating only GOSAT data, we can reproduce the observed CO2 time series at surface and TC-CON sites in the tropics and the northern extra-tropics. In contrast, in the southern extra-tropics GOSAT X-CO2 leads to enhanced seasonal cycle amplitudes compared to independent measurements, and we identify it as the result of a land-sea bias in our GOSAT X-CO2 retrievals. A bias correction in the form of a global offset between GOSAT land and sea pixels in a joint inversion of satellite and surface measurements of CO2 yields plausible global flux estimates which are more tightly constrained than in an inversion using surface CO2 data alone. We show that assimilating the biascorrected GOSAT data on top of surface CO2 data (a) reduces the estimated global land sink of CO2, and (b) shifts the terrestrial net uptake of carbon from the tropics to the extratropics. It is concluded that while GOSAT total column CO2 provide useful constraints for source-sink inversions, small spatiotemporal biases -beyond what can be detected using current validation techniques - have serious consequences for optimized fluxes, even aggregated over continental scales.
A variational data assimilation model is developed to estimate surface energy fluxes from remotely sensed land surface temperature (LST). Components of the surface energy balance (sensible, latent, and ground heat fluxes) have different degrees of efficiency in dissipating available energy. LST is the state variable of the surface energy balance (SEB). Land surface models that capture the exchange and storage of energy in the soil and vegetation media use LST as a prognostic variable. Sequences of LST measurements implicitly contain information on partitioning of available energy among the components of SEB. In this study, we focus on the estimation of the sum of the turbulent fluxes as well as the partitioning among them. Two dimensionless parameters are used to characterize the sum and the partitioning. Using LST observations from a constellation of satellites, these parameters are mapped over a large region. The remotely sensed LST is assimilated to the heat diffusion equation within the SEB framework. In addition, a model error term is added to the SEB equation such that the variational data assimilation scheme includes model uncertainty as well as observation error. The framework is tested over the Southern Great Plains region. The mapped results of the surface evaporation estimation are used to study the surface control on evaporation. Independent mapped soil moisture estimates from an airborne microwave campaign are used. The dependence of the evaporation control-soil moisture relationship on vegetation cover and plant functional types over large regions is examined in this first and exploratory study. 2013. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
Optical properties and precipitation efficiency of atmospheric clouds are largely determined by turbulent mixing with their environment. When cloud liquid water is reduced upon mixing, droplets may evaporate uniformly across the population or, in the other extreme, a subset of droplets may evaporate completely, leaving the remaining drops unaffected. Here, we use airborne holographic imaging to visualize the spatial structure and droplet size distribution at the smallest turbulent scales, thereby observing their response to entrainment and mixing with clear air. The measurements reveal that turbulent clouds are inhomogeneous, with sharp transitions between cloud and clear air properties persisting to dissipative scales (< 1 centimeter). The local droplet size distribution fluctuates strongly in number density but with a nearly unchanging mean droplet diameter.
The Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP), conducted from June 2012 through June 2013, was a unique study designed to provide a comprehensive data set that can be used to investigate a number of important climate science questions, including those related to aerosol mixing state and aerosol radiative forcing. The study was designed to sample the atmosphere between and within two atmospheric columns; one fixed near the coast of North America (over Cape Cod, MA) and a second moveable column over the Atlantic Ocean several hundred kilometers from the coast. The U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility (AMF) was deployed at the base of the Cape Cod column, and the ARM Aerial Facility was utilized for the summer and winter intensive observation periods. One important finding from TCAP is that four of six nearly cloud-free flight days had aerosol layers aloft in both the Cape Cod and maritime columns that were detected using the nadir pointing second-generation NASA high-spectral resolution lidar (HSRL-2). These layers contributed up to 60% of the total observed aerosol optical depth (AOD). Many of these layers were also intercepted by the aircraft configured for in situ sampling, and the aerosol in the layers was found to have increased amounts of biomass burning material and nitrate compared to aerosol found near the surface. In addition, while there was a great deal of spatial and day-to-day variability in the aerosol chemical composition and optical properties, no systematic differences between the two columns were observed.
A new treatment for shallow clouds has been introduced into the Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF). The new scheme, called the cumulus potential (CuP) scheme, replaces the ad hoc trigger function used in the Kain-Fritsch cumulus parameterization with a trigger function related to the distribution of temperature and humidity in the convective boundary layer via probability density functions (PDFs). An additional modification to the default version ofWRFis the computation of a cumulus cloud fraction based on the time scales relevant for shallow cumuli. Results from three case studies over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) site in north-central Oklahoma are presented. These cases were selected because of the presence of shallow cumuli over the ARM site. The modified version of WRF does a much better job predicting the cloud fraction and the downwelling shortwave irradiance than control simulations utilizing the default Kain-Fritsch scheme. The modified scheme includes a number of additional free parameters, including the number and size of bins used to define the PDF, the minimum frequency of a bin within the PDF before that bin is considered for shallow clouds to form, and the critical cumulative frequency of bins required to trigger deep convection. A series of tests were undertaken to evaluate the sensitivity of the simulations to these parameters. Overall, the scheme was found to be relatively insensitive to each of the parameters. 2013 American Meteorological Society.
A new treatment for shallow clouds has been introduced into the Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF). The new scheme, called the cumulus potential (CuP) scheme, replaces the ad hoc trigger function used in the Kain-Fritsch cumulus parameterization with a trigger function related to the distribution of temperature and humidity in the convective boundary layer via probability density functions (PDFs). An additional modification to the default version of WRF is the computation of a cumulus cloud fraction based on the time scales relevant for shallow cumuli. Results from three case studies over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) site in north-central Oklahoma are presented. These cases were selected because of the presence of shallow cumuli over the ARM site. The modified version of WRF does a much better job predicting the cloud fraction and the downwelling shortwave irradiance than control simulations utilizing the default Kain-Fritsch scheme. The modified scheme includes a number of additional free parameters, including the number and size of bins used to define the PDF, the minimum frequency of a bin within the PDF before that bin is considered for shallow clouds to form, and the critical cumulative frequency of bins required to trigger deep convection. A series of tests were undertaken to evaluate the sensitivity of the simulations to these parameters. Overall, the scheme was found to be relatively insensitive to each of the parameters.
