The long-term measurement records from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site on the Southern Great Plains show evidence of a bias in the ECMWF model's surface irradiance. Based on previous studies, which have suggested that summertime shallow clouds may contribute to the bias, an evaluation of 146 days with observed nonprecipitating fair-weather cumulus clouds is performed. In-cloud liquid water path and effective radius are both overestimated in the model with liquid water path dominating to produce clouds that are too reflective. These are compensated by occasional cloud-free days in the model such that the fair-weather cumulus regime overall does not contribute significantly to the multiyear daytime mean surface irradiance bias of 23 W m(-2). To further explore the origin of the bias, observed and modeled cloud fraction profiles over 6 years are classified and sorted based on the surface irradiance bias associated with each sample pair. Overcast low cloud conditions during the spring and fall seasons are identified as a major contributor. For samples with low cloud present in both observations and model, opposing surface irradiance biases are found for overcast and broken cloud cover conditions. A reduction of cloud liquid to a third for broken low clouds and an increase by a factor of 1.5 in overcast situations improves agreement with the observed liquid water path distribution. This approach of combining the model shortwave bias with a cloud classification helps to identify compensating errors in the model, providing guidance for a targeted improvement of cloud parameterizations.
In this study, the representation of marine boundary layer clouds is investigated in the ECMWF model using observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) mobile facility deployment to Graciosa Island in the North Atlantic. Systematic errors in the occurrence of clouds, liquid water path, precipitation, and surface radiation are assessed in the operational model for a 19-month-long period. Boundary layer clouds were the most frequently observed cloud type but were underestimated by 10% in the model. Systematic but partially compensating surface radiation errors exist and can be linked to opposing cloud cover and liquid water path errors in broken (shallow cumulus) and overcast (stratocumulus) low-cloud regimes, consistent with previously reported results from the continental ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. Occurrence of precipitation is overestimated by a factor of 1.5 at cloud base and by a factor of 2 at the surface, suggesting deficiencies in both the warm-rain formation and subcloud evaporation parameterizations. A single-column version of the ECMWF model is used to test combined changes to the parameterizations of boundary layer, autoconversion/accretion, and rain evaporation processes at Graciosa. Low-cloud occurrence, liquid water path, radiation biases, and precipitation occurrence are all significantly improved when compared to the ARM observations. Initial results from the modified parameterizations in the full model show improvement in the global top-of-the-atmosphere shortwave radiation, suggesting the reduced errors in the comparison at Graciosa are more widely applicable to boundary layer cloud around the globe.
Microphysical processes and cloud-radiation interaction occur on spatial scales of variability smaller than those represented explicitly in global weather forecasting and climate models. It is therefore necessary to parametrize the unresolved heterogeneity of humidity and cloud condensate in order to predict process rates accurately. Ground-based observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement sites located in various climatic regions of the world provide a source of high-temporal-resolution observations of cloud condensate. A number of different retrieval products for cloud condensate are assessed for the different geographical regions, years and seasons. The retrieval reliability varies with cloud type, but for cloud categories largely unaffected by precipitation a comparison across sites and longer time periods is possible. These observations confirm previously documented variability behaviour as a function of cloud fraction, but also reveal a systematic regime dependence that is not captured by existing parametrizations. Condensate variability measured as a fractional standard deviation (FSD) in warm boundary-layer clouds is greater in the Tropics than in mid and high latitudes for scenes with comparable cloud type and fraction, with the observed FSD varying from 1.2 in the Tropics to 0.4 in the Arctic. A parametrization of the FSD of cloud liquid condensate based on the grid-box mean total water amount and cloud fraction is formulated and shown to capture the observed range of FSD values better across different geographical sites and different seasons. The regime dependence of FSD for cirrus cloud is less pronounced than that for liquid clouds and is found largely to agree with FSD values previously derived from satellite observations. 2016 Royal Meteorological Society.
Observations made at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) site during uniform nonprecipitating stratocumulus cloud conditions for a 14-h period are used to examine cloud-top entrainment processes and parameterizations. The observations from a vertically pointing Doppler cloud radar provide estimates of vertical velocity variance and energy dissipation rate (EDR) terms in the parameterized turbulent kinetic energy (TKE) budget of the entrainment zone. Hourly averages of the vertical velocity variance term in the TKE entrainment formulation correlated strongly (r = 0.72) with the dissipation rate term in the entrainment zone, with an increased correlation (r = 0.92) when accounting for the nighttime decoupling of the boundary layer. Independent estimates of entrainment rates were obtained from an inversion-height budget using the local time derivative and horizontal advection of cloud-top height together with large-scale vertical velocity at the boundary layer inversion from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) reanalysis model. The mean entrainment rate from the inversion-height budget during the 14-h period was 0.74 0.15 cm s-1and was used to calculate bulk coefficients for entrainment parameterizations based on convective velocity scale w* and TKE budgets of the entrainment zone. The hourly values of entrainment rates calculated using these coefficients exhibited good agreement with those calculated from the inversion-height budget associated with substantial changes in surface buoyancy production and cloud-top radiative cooling. The results indicate a strong potential for making entrainment rate estimates directly from radar vertical velocity variance and the EDR measurements. 2016 American Meteorological Society.
At the beginning of 2009 new space-borne observations of dry-air column-averaged mole fractions of atmospheric methane (XCH4) became available from the Thermal And Near infrared Sensor for carbon Observations-Fourier Transform Spectrometer (TANSO-FTS) instrument on board the Greenhouse Gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT). Until April 2012 concurrent methane (CH4) retrievals were provided by the SCanning Imaging Absorption spectroMeter for Atmospheric CartograpHY (SCIAMACHY) instrument on board the ENVironmental SATellite (ENVISAT). The GOSAT and SCIAMACHY XCH4 retrievals can be compared during the period of overlap. We estimate monthly average CH4 emissions between January 2010 and December 2011, using the TM5-4DVAR inverse modelling system. In addition to satellite data, high-accuracy measurements from the Cooperative Air Sampling Network of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Earth System Research Laboratory (NOAA ESRL) are used, providing strong constraints on the remote surface atmosphere. We discuss five inversion scenarios that make use of different GOSAT and SCIAMACHY XCH4 retrieval products, including two sets of GOSAT proxy retrievals processed independently by the Netherlands Institute for Space Research (SRON)/Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), and the University of Leicester (UL), and the RemoTeC "Full-Physics" (FP) XCH4 retrievals available from SRON/KIT. The GOSAT-based inversions show significant reductions in the root mean square (rms) difference between retrieved and modelled XCH4, and require much smaller bias corrections compared to the inversion using SCIAMACHY retrievals, reflecting the higher precision and relative accuracy of the GOSAT XCH4. Despite the large differences between the GOSAT and SCIAMACHY retrievals, 2-year average emission maps show overall good agreement among all satellite-based inversions, with consistent flux adjustment patterns, particularly across equatorial Africa and North America. Over North America, the satellite inversions result in a significant redistribution of CH4 emissions from North-East to South-Central United States. This result is consistent with recent independent studies suggesting a systematic underestimation of CH4 emissions from North American fossil fuel sources in bottom-up inventories, likely related to natural gas production facilities. Furthermore, all four satellite inversions yield lower CH4 fluxes across the Congo basin compared to the NOAA-only scenario, but higher emissions across tropical East Africa. The GOSAT and SCIAMACHY inversions show similar performance when validated against independent shipboard and aircraft observations, and XCH4 retrievals available from the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON).
The atmospheric boundary layer mixing height (MH) is an important bulk parameter in air quality (AQ) modelling. Formulating this parameter under statically stable conditions, such as in the Arctic, has historically been difficult. In an effort to improve AQ modelling capacity in North America, MH is studied in two geographically distinct areas: the Arctic (Barrow, Alaska) and the southern Great Plains (Lamont, Oklahoma). Observational data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program, Climate Research Facility and numerical weather forecasting data from Environment Canada's Regional Global Environmental Multiscale (GEM15) model have been used in order to examine the suitability of available parameterizations for MH under statically stable conditions and also to compare the level of agreement between observed and modelled MH. The analysis period is 1 October 2011 to 1 October 2012. The observations alone suggest that profile methods are preferred over surface methods in defining MH under statically stable conditions. Surface methods exhibit poorer comparison statistics with observations than profile methods. In addition, the fitted constants for surface methods are site-dependent, precluding their applicability for modelling under general conditions. The comparison of observations and GEM15 MH suggests that although the agreement is acceptable in Lamont, the default model surface method contributes to a consistent overprediction of MH in Barrow in all seasons. An alternative profile method for MH is suggested based on the bulk Richardson number. This method is shown to reduce the model bias in Barrow by a factor of two without affecting model performance in Lamont.
We discuss the role of atmospheric gravity waves in modulating cloud radiative and dynamical properties over the southeast Pacific. Satellite imagery and satellite-retrieved cloud properties during October 2008 illustrate three distinct episodes of horizontal propagation of gravity wave trains across the large-scale stratocumulus (Sc) cloud deck capping the local marine boundary layer. In one period, 79 October 2008, the waves modulated cloud-top-height by up to 400 m peak-to-trough, propagating perpendicular to the synoptic boundary layer flow with phase speed 15.3 m s1, period approximate to 1 h and horizontal wavelength 55 km. The gravity waves were observed to be non-dispersive. These waves were first evident in the cloud deck near 30 degrees S, 85 degrees W during a 24 h period beginning at midday on 7 October 2008, and propagated northeastward toward the Peruvian coast for the following 48 h. During this time they induced both reversible and non-reversible changes in cloud-radiative and cloud-dynamic properties, such that areas of clear sky developed in the troughs of passing wave-fronts. These pockets of open cells persisted long after the passage of the gravity waves, advecting northwestward with the background wind. Using the analysis fields of the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts in conjunction with infrared and microwave satellite imagery, we show that these gravity waves emerged from a disturbed subtropical jet stream. The radiant of the waves was coincident in all cases with centres of large negative residuals in nonlinear balance, suggesting that geostrophic readjustment of sharply divergent flows associated with the disturbed jet provided a source for the wave energy. Conversely, gravity waves were not observed in more quiescent jet conditions. This case study highlights the important and irreversible effects that gravity waves propagating in the troposphere can have on cloud radiative properties (and hence surface radiation budgets) over a very wide area. It also highlights the importance of synoptic influence on Sc-covered marine boundary layers. Copyright (c) 2012 Royal Meteorological Society
This paper examines two co-located satellite-derived data sets over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site in central Oklahoma. The data sets, one derived from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)/Langley Surface Meteorology and Solar Energy (SSE) Data Base and the other from the State University of New York at Albany (SUNY/Albany) satellite-based model, are compared with each other as well as with a high-quality surface station located at the Central Facility (CF) of the ARM/SGP site. The purpose of the study is two-fold: (1) to benchmark the two satellite-derived data sets with each other and (2) to examine the spatial variability of the higher-resolution SUNY data within the NASA cell that overlays the ground station. The results show variations in seasonal biases between the two satellite-derived data sets and the ground station. In addition, the distribution of high-resolution values within a NASA grid cell varies from month to month possibly due to variations in cloud conditions and surface reflectance characteristics that occur across the seasons. Copyright 2010, American Solar Energy Society.
Monsoon rainfall over South Asia has decreased during the last 5 to 6 decades according to several sets of observations. Although sea surface temperature (SST) has risen across the Indo-Pacific warm pool during this period, the expected accompanying increased rainfall has occurred only in the tropical western Pacific. The above changes noted in observations are also seen in a coupled climate model, but only when the model includes the recent increase in greenhouse gas concentration. The hypothesis that the robust rise in SST over the warm pool, perhaps anchored by an increase in greenhouse gas concentrations, is instrumental in the east- west shift in monsoon rainfall (enhanced rainfall over tropical western Pacific and decreased rainfall over South Asia) is proposed. A suite of controlled experiments with an atmospheric general circulation model has been performed to isolate the impact of regional SST warming trends on the dryness over South Asia. Model experiments support the hypothesis that the rising SST trend over the tropical western Pacific has changed the atmospheric circulation: over the Bay of Bengal more dry and cool air is advected from the northeast than previously. Moist static energy budget diagnostics on the model solutions identify the sources for this east- west shift. SST warming over the warm pool has accelerated in recent decades. Therefore, a close monitoring of that warming is important for long-term variations of monsoon rainfall. The inconsistency in the amplitude of drying over South Asia among the various land-based rainfall observations and lack of sustained rainfall observations over the open oceans, however, poses constraints in the results.
Measurements of the effect of water uptake on particulate light extinction or scattering made at two locations during the 2010 Carbonaceous Aerosols and Radiative Effects Study (CARES) study around Sacramento, CA are reported. The observed influence of water uptake, characterized through the dimensionless optical hygroscopicity parameter gamma, is compared with calculations constrained by observed particle size distributions and size-dependent particle composition. A closure assessment has been carried out that allowed for determination of the average hygroscopic growth factors (GFs) at 85% relative humidity and the dimensionless hygroscopicity parameter kappa for oxygenated organic aerosol (OA) and for supermicron particles (defined here as particles with aerodynamic diameters between 1 and 2.5 microns), yielding kappa = 0.1-0.15 and 0.9-1.0, respectively. The derived range of oxygenated OA kappa values are in line with previous observations. The relatively large values for supermicron particles is consistent with substantial contributions of sea-salt-containing particles in this size range. Analysis of time-dependent variations in the supermicron particle hygroscopicity suggest that atmospheric processing, specifically chloride displacement by nitrate and the accumulation of secondary organics on supermicron particles, can lead to substantial depression of the observed GF.
Large-scale atmospheric models (LSAMs) that utilize the Monte Carlo Independent Column Approximation (McICA) have, thus far, paired McICA only with two-stream approximations (TSAs) of the radiative transfer equation. In this study, the short-wave TSA is exchanged for a Monte Carlo (MC) photon transport model. More than 44 000 domains of cloud properties retrieved from A-Train satellite data, each measuring 256 km in length, were used to assess the noise characteristics of TSA- and MC-based McICA models. It appears as though application of an MC algorithm in McICA will be both beneficial and tractable for LSAMs. This is because known levels of acceptable radiative noise produced by TSA-based McICAs can be achieved with small numbers of MC photons. The greatest concern with the TSA McICA has been noise associated with heating rates for cloudy layers. But with as few as 500-1000 photons per simulation, the MC McICA reduces cloudy layer heating rate errors by typically approximate to 20%. Furthermore, since MC models can utilize detailed descriptions of cloud particle scattering phase functions and TSAs use only corresponding asymmetry parameters, TSA-based McICAs, on average, overestimate all-sky top-of-atmosphere reflected flux density at small solar zenith angles (0) by approximate to 3 W m(-2) and underestimate it at large (0) by approximate to 1 W m(-2); vice versa for surface net flux density. Systematic biases such as these are important when attempting to balance an LSAM's energy budgets and when making detailed estimates of radiative forcings due to anthropogenic activities.
Solar flux densities and heating rates predicted by a broadband, multilayer -Eddington two-stream approximation are compared to estimates from a Monte Carlo model that uses detailed descriptions of cloud particle phase functions and facilitates locally nonzero net horizontal flux densities. Results are presented as domain averages for 256-km sections of cloudy atmospheres inferred from A-Train satellite data: 32 632 samples for January 2007 between 70 degrees S and 70 degrees N with total cloud fraction C > 0.05. The domains are meant to represent grid cells of a conventional global climate model and consist of columns of infinite width across track and x approximate to 1 km along track. The -Eddington was applied in independent column approximation (ICA) mode, while the Monte Carlo was applied using both x (i.e., ICA) and x approximate to 1 km. Mean-bias errors due to the -Eddington's neglect of phase function details and horizontal transfer, as functions of cosine of solar zenith angle (0), are comparable in magnitude and have the same signs. With minor dependence on cloud particle sizes, the -Eddington over- and underestimates top-of-atmosphere reflected flux density for the cloudy portion of domains by similar to 10 W m(-2) for (0) > 0.9 and -3 W m(-2) for (0) < 0.2; full domain averages are similar to 8 and -2 W m(-2), respectively, given mean C > 0.75 for all (0). These errors are reversed in sign, but slightly larger, for net surface flux densities. The -Eddington underestimates total atmospheric absorption by similar to 2.5 W m(-2) on average. Hence, -Eddington mean-bias errors for domain-averaged layer heating rates are usually negative but can be positive. Rarely do they exceed +/- 10% of the mean heating rate; the largest errors are when the sides of liquid clouds are irradiated by direct beams.
Composite analysis of mature near-equatorial oceanic mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) during the active stage of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) shows where different hydrometeor types occur relative to convective updraft and stratiform midlevel inflow layers. The National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) S-PolKa radar observed these MCSs during the Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation/Atmospheric Radiation Measurement-MJO Investigation Experiment (DYNAMO/AMIE). NCAR's particle identification algorithm (PID) is applied to S-PolKa's polarimetric data to identify the dominant hydrometeor type in each radar sample volume. Combining S-PolKa's Doppler velocity data with the PID demonstrates that hydrometeors have a systematic relationship to the airflow within mature MCSs. In the convective region, moderate rain occurs within the updraft core; the heaviest rain occurs just downwind of the core; wet aggregates occur immediately below the melting layer; narrow zones containing graupel/rimed aggregates occur just downstream of the updraft core at midlevels; dry aggregates dominate above the melting level; and smaller ice particles occur along the edges of the convective zone. In the stratiform region, rain intensity decreases toward the anvil; melting aggregates occur in horizontally extensive but vertically thin regions at the melting layer; intermittent pockets of graupel/rimed aggregates occur atop the melting layer; dry aggregates and small ice particles occur sequentially above the melting level; and horizontally oriented ice crystals occur between similar to 10 degrees C and similar to 20 degrees C in turbulent air above the descending midlevel inflow, suggesting enhanced depositional growth of dendrites. The organization of hydrometeors within the midlevel inflow layer is insensitive to the presence or absence of a leading convective line.
To quantify the contributions of fossil and biomass sources to the wintertime Arctic aerosol burden source apportionment is reported for elemental (EC) and organic carbon (OC) fractions of six PM10samples collected during a wintertime (2012-2013) campaign in Barrow, AK. Radiocarbon apportionment of EC indicates that fossil sources contribute an average of 68 9% (0.01-0.07 g m-3) in midwinter decreasing to 49 6% (0.02 g m-3) in late winter. The mean contribution of fossil sources to OC for the campaign was stable at 38 8% (0.04-0.32 g m-3). Samples were also analyzed for organic tracers, including levoglucosan, for use in a chemical mass balance (CMB) source apportionment model. The CMB model was able to apportion 24-53% and 99% of the OC and EC burdens, respectively, during the campaign, with fossil OC contributions ranging from 25 to 74% (0.02-0.09 g m-3) and fossil EC contributions ranging from 73 to 94% (0.03-0.07 g m-3). Back trajectories identified two major wintertime source regions to Barrow: the Russian and North American Arctic. Atmospheric lifetimes of levoglucosan, ranging from 50 to 320 h, revealed variability in wintertime atmospheric processing of this biomass burning tracer. This study allows for unambiguous apportionment of EC to fossil fuel and biomass combustion sources and intercomparison with CMB modeling. 2015 American Chemical Society.
We present one of the first estimates of the global distribution of CO2 surface fluxes using total column CO2 measurements retrieved by the SRON-KIT RemoTeC algorithm from the Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT). We derive optimized fluxes from June 2009 to December 2010. We estimate fluxes from surface CO2 measurements to use as baselines for comparing GOSAT data-derived fluxes. Assimilating only GOSAT data, we can reproduce the observed CO2 time series at surface and TC-CON sites in the tropics and the northern extra-tropics. In contrast, in the southern extra-tropics GOSAT X-CO2 leads to enhanced seasonal cycle amplitudes compared to independent measurements, and we identify it as the result of a land-sea bias in our GOSAT X-CO2 retrievals. A bias correction in the form of a global offset between GOSAT land and sea pixels in a joint inversion of satellite and surface measurements of CO2 yields plausible global flux estimates which are more tightly constrained than in an inversion using surface CO2 data alone. We show that assimilating the biascorrected GOSAT data on top of surface CO2 data (a) reduces the estimated global land sink of CO2, and (b) shifts the terrestrial net uptake of carbon from the tropics to the extratropics. It is concluded that while GOSAT total column CO2 provide useful constraints for source-sink inversions, small spatiotemporal biases -beyond what can be detected using current validation techniques - have serious consequences for optimized fluxes, even aggregated over continental scales.
A variational data assimilation model is developed to estimate surface energy fluxes from remotely sensed land surface temperature (LST). Components of the surface energy balance (sensible, latent, and ground heat fluxes) have different degrees of efficiency in dissipating available energy. LST is the state variable of the surface energy balance (SEB). Land surface models that capture the exchange and storage of energy in the soil and vegetation media use LST as a prognostic variable. Sequences of LST measurements implicitly contain information on partitioning of available energy among the components of SEB. In this study, we focus on the estimation of the sum of the turbulent fluxes as well as the partitioning among them. Two dimensionless parameters are used to characterize the sum and the partitioning. Using LST observations from a constellation of satellites, these parameters are mapped over a large region. The remotely sensed LST is assimilated to the heat diffusion equation within the SEB framework. In addition, a model error term is added to the SEB equation such that the variational data assimilation scheme includes model uncertainty as well as observation error. The framework is tested over the Southern Great Plains region. The mapped results of the surface evaporation estimation are used to study the surface control on evaporation. Independent mapped soil moisture estimates from an airborne microwave campaign are used. The dependence of the evaporation control-soil moisture relationship on vegetation cover and plant functional types over large regions is examined in this first and exploratory study. 2013. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
Optical properties and precipitation efficiency of atmospheric clouds are largely determined by turbulent mixing with their environment. When cloud liquid water is reduced upon mixing, droplets may evaporate uniformly across the population or, in the other extreme, a subset of droplets may evaporate completely, leaving the remaining drops unaffected. Here, we use airborne holographic imaging to visualize the spatial structure and droplet size distribution at the smallest turbulent scales, thereby observing their response to entrainment and mixing with clear air. The measurements reveal that turbulent clouds are inhomogeneous, with sharp transitions between cloud and clear air properties persisting to dissipative scales (< 1 centimeter). The local droplet size distribution fluctuates strongly in number density but with a nearly unchanging mean droplet diameter.
The Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP), conducted from June 2012 through June 2013, was a unique study designed to provide a comprehensive data set that can be used to investigate a number of important climate science questions, including those related to aerosol mixing state and aerosol radiative forcing. The study was designed to sample the atmosphere between and within two atmospheric columns; one fixed near the coast of North America (over Cape Cod, MA) and a second moveable column over the Atlantic Ocean several hundred kilometers from the coast. The U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility (AMF) was deployed at the base of the Cape Cod column, and the ARM Aerial Facility was utilized for the summer and winter intensive observation periods. One important finding from TCAP is that four of six nearly cloud-free flight days had aerosol layers aloft in both the Cape Cod and maritime columns that were detected using the nadir pointing second-generation NASA high-spectral resolution lidar (HSRL-2). These layers contributed up to 60% of the total observed aerosol optical depth (AOD). Many of these layers were also intercepted by the aircraft configured for in situ sampling, and the aerosol in the layers was found to have increased amounts of biomass burning material and nitrate compared to aerosol found near the surface. In addition, while there was a great deal of spatial and day-to-day variability in the aerosol chemical composition and optical properties, no systematic differences between the two columns were observed.
A new treatment for shallow clouds has been introduced into the Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF). The new scheme, called the cumulus potential (CuP) scheme, replaces the ad hoc trigger function used in the Kain-Fritsch cumulus parameterization with a trigger function related to the distribution of temperature and humidity in the convective boundary layer via probability density functions (PDFs). An additional modification to the default version ofWRFis the computation of a cumulus cloud fraction based on the time scales relevant for shallow cumuli. Results from three case studies over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) site in north-central Oklahoma are presented. These cases were selected because of the presence of shallow cumuli over the ARM site. The modified version of WRF does a much better job predicting the cloud fraction and the downwelling shortwave irradiance than control simulations utilizing the default Kain-Fritsch scheme. The modified scheme includes a number of additional free parameters, including the number and size of bins used to define the PDF, the minimum frequency of a bin within the PDF before that bin is considered for shallow clouds to form, and the critical cumulative frequency of bins required to trigger deep convection. A series of tests were undertaken to evaluate the sensitivity of the simulations to these parameters. Overall, the scheme was found to be relatively insensitive to each of the parameters. 2013 American Meteorological Society.
A new treatment for shallow clouds has been introduced into the Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF). The new scheme, called the cumulus potential (CuP) scheme, replaces the ad hoc trigger function used in the Kain-Fritsch cumulus parameterization with a trigger function related to the distribution of temperature and humidity in the convective boundary layer via probability density functions (PDFs). An additional modification to the default version of WRF is the computation of a cumulus cloud fraction based on the time scales relevant for shallow cumuli. Results from three case studies over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) site in north-central Oklahoma are presented. These cases were selected because of the presence of shallow cumuli over the ARM site. The modified version of WRF does a much better job predicting the cloud fraction and the downwelling shortwave irradiance than control simulations utilizing the default Kain-Fritsch scheme. The modified scheme includes a number of additional free parameters, including the number and size of bins used to define the PDF, the minimum frequency of a bin within the PDF before that bin is considered for shallow clouds to form, and the critical cumulative frequency of bins required to trigger deep convection. A series of tests were undertaken to evaluate the sensitivity of the simulations to these parameters. Overall, the scheme was found to be relatively insensitive to each of the parameters.
Although shallow cumuli are common over large areas of the globe, their impact on the surface cloud radiative forcing (CRF) has not been carefully evaluated. This study addresses this shortcoming by analyzing data collected during conditions with single-layer shallow cumuli over eight summers (2000 through 2007) at the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. During periods with clouds, the average shortwave and longwave CRF at the surface are -45.5 W m-2 (out of 612 W m-2 estimated for clear-sky conditions) and +15.9 W m-2 (out of -105.2 W m-2 estimated for clear-sky conditions), respectively. Instances of cloudinduced enhancement of the shortwave irradiance over that estimated for clear skies are observed approximately 20% of the time and are caused by spatial and temporal inhomogeneity of cumuli. Such enhancement is responsible for occurrences of positive shortwave CRF with instantaneous values as large as +75 W m-2. The total amount of shortwave and longwave energy deposited at the surface over a period of time depends nonlinearly on the fractional sky cover, and the largest values of the deposited energy occur for intermediate cloud amounts between 0.4 and 0.6.
This study utilizes six commonly used reanalysis products, including the NCEP-Department of Energy Reanalysis 2 (NCEP2), NCEP Climate Forecast System Reanalysis (CFSR), ECMWF interim reanalysis (ERA-Interim), Japanese 25-year Reanalysis Project (JRA-25), Modern-Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications (MERRA), and North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR), to evaluate features of the southern Great Plains low-level jet (LLJ) above the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Climate Research Facility (ACRF) Southern Great Plains site. Two sets of radiosonde data are utilized: the six-week Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) and a 10-yr period spanning 2001 through 2010. All six reanalyses are compared to MC3E data, while only the NARR, MERRA, and CFSR are compared to the 10-yr data. The reanalyses are able to represent most aspects of the composite LLJ profile, although there is a tendency for each reanalysis to overestimate the wind speed between the nose of the LLJ (at approximately 900 mb) and a pressure level of 700 mb. There are large discrepancies in the number of LLJs observed and derived from the reanalysis, particularly for strong LLJs, leading to an underestimate of the moisture transport associated with LLJs. When the 10-yr period is considered, the NARR and CFSR overestimate and MERRA underestimates the total moisture transport, but all three underestimate the transport associated with strong LLJs by factors of 1.4, 2.0, and 2.7 for CFSR, NARR, and MERRA, respectively. During MC3E there were differences in the patterns of moisture convergence and divergence, but the patterns are more consistent during the 10-yr period. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
This study utilizes six commonly used reanalysis products, including the NCEP-Department of Energy Reanalysis 2 (NCEP2), NCEP Climate Forecast System Reanalysis (CFSR), ECMWF interim reanalysis (ERA-Interim), Japanese 25-year Reanalysis Project (JRA-25), Modern-Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications (MERRA), and North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR), to evaluate features of the southern Great Plains low-level jet (LLJ) above the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Climate Research Facility (ACRF) Southern Great Plains site. Two sets of radiosonde data are utilized: the six-week Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) and a 10-yr period spanning 2001 through 2010. All six reanalyses are compared to MC3E data, while only the NARR, MERRA, and CFSR are compared to the 10-yr data. The reanalyses are able to represent most aspects of the composite LLJ profile, although there is a tendency for each reanalysis to overestimate the wind speed between the nose of the LLJ (at approximately 900 mb) and a pressure level of 700 mb. There are large discrepancies in the number of LLJs observed and derived from the reanalysis, particularly for strong LLJs, leading to an underestimate of the moisture transport associated with LLJs. When the 10-yr period is considered, the NARR and CFSR overestimate and MERRA underestimates the total moisture transport, but all three underestimate the transport associated with strong LLJs by factors of 1.4, 2.0, and 2.7 for CFSR, NARR, and MERRA, respectively. During MC3E there were differences in the patterns of moisture convergence and divergence, but the patterns are more consistent during the 10-yr period.
Empirical knowledge of how cirrus cloud properties are coupled with the large-scale meteorological environment is a prerequisite for understanding the role of microphysical processes in the life cycle of cirrus cloud systems. Using active and passive remote sensing data from the A-Train, relationships between cirrus cloud properties and the large-scale dynamics are examined. Mesoscale cirrus events from along the A-Train track from 1 yr of data are sorted on the basis of vertical distributions of radar reflectivity and on large-scale meteorological parameters derived from the NCEP-NCAR reanalysis using a K-means cluster-analysis algorithm. With these defined regimes, the authors examine two questions: Given a cirrus cloud type defined by cloud properties, what are the large-scale dynamics? Vice versa, what cirrus cloud properties tend to emerge from large-scale dynamics regimes that tend to form cirrus? From the answers to these questions, the links between the large-scale dynamics regimes and the genre of cirrus that evolve within these regimes are identified. It is found that, to a considerable extent, the large-scale environment determines the bulk cirrus properties and that, within the dynamics regimes, cirrus cloud systems tend to evolve through life cycles, the details of which are not necessarily explained by the large-scale motions alone. These results suggest that, while simple relationships may be used to parameterize the gross properties of cirrus, more sophisticated parameterizations are required for representing the detailed structure and radiative feedbacks of these clouds.
To test the capabilities of newly available instrumentation and to explore the dynamics of carbonyl sulfide (COS) as a proxy for the measurement of canopy-scale gross primary production (GPP), we conducted an experiment to measure the simultaneous net transfer of COS and CO2 between the atmosphere and a growing wheat canopy, senesced wheat, and the harvested field (located in the Southern Great Plains of the U.S.) using the eddy covariance technique. We found that during the growing season, there was a strong uptake of COS by the canopy (roughly between -10 and -40 pmol m(-2) s(-1)) with a strong diel signal that mirrored net CO2 fluxes. After senescence and over the harvested field, we observed a strong source of COS to the atmosphere (up to +40 pmol m(-2) s(-1)) that exhibited a weaker diel pattern, again similar to CO2. These results suggest that the dynamics of COS are more complicated than once thought, but that it may still be possible to independently derive canopy-scale GPP from direct COS measurements and to use them as model constraints on the atmospheric carbon cycle. To demonstrate this, we computed an average value of leaf relative uptake (LRU) (the scaling factor between GPP and ratios of the fluxes of COS and CO2 and ratios of the atmospheric concentrations of COS and CO2) that is in good agreement with laboratory results. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We report on 10 yr of airborne measurements of atmospheric CO2 mole fraction from continuous and flask systems, collected between 2002 and 2012 over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Climate Research Facility in the US Southern Great Plains (SGP). These observations were designed to quantify trends and variability in atmospheric mole fraction of CO2 and other greenhouse gases with the precision and accuracy needed to evaluate ground-based and satellite-based column CO2 estimates, test forward and inverse models, and help with the interpretation of ground-based CO2 mole-fraction measurements. During flights, we measured CO2 and meteorological data continuously and collected flasks for a rich suite of additional gases: CO2, CO, CH4, N2O, (CO2)-C-13, carbonyl sulfide (COS), and trace hydrocarbon species. These measurements were collected approximately twice per week by small aircraft (Cessna 172 initially, then Cessna 206) on a series of horizontal legs ranging in altitude from 460 m to 5500 m a.m.s.l. Since the beginning of the program, more than 400 continuous CO2 vertical profiles have been collected (2007-2012), along with about 330 profiles from NOAA/ESRL 12-flask (2006-2012) and 284 from NOAA/ESRL 2-flask (2002-2006) packages for carbon cycle gases and isotopes. Averaged over the entire record, there were no systematic differences between the continuous and flask CO2 observations when they were sampling the same air, i.e., over the one-minute flask-sampling time. Using multiple technologies (a flask sampler and two continuous analyzers), we documented a mean difference of < 0.2 ppm between instruments. However, flask data were not equivalent in all regards; horizontal variability in CO2 mole fraction within the 5-10 min legs sometimes resulted in significant differences between flask and continuous measurement values for those legs, and the information contained in fine-scale variability about atmospheric transport was not captured by flask-based observations. The CO2 mole fraction trend at 3000 m a.m.s.l. was 1.91 ppm yr(-1) between 2008 and 2010, very close to the concurrent trend at Mauna Loa of 1.95 ppm yr(-1). The seasonal amplitude of CO2 mole fraction in the free troposphere (FT) was half that in the planetary boundary layer (PBL) (similar to 15 ppm vs. similar to 30 ppm) and twice that at Mauna Loa (approximately 8 ppm). The CO2 horizontal variability was up to 10 ppm in the PBL and less than 1 ppm at the top of the vertical profiles in the FT.
We report a new shortwave infrared (SWIR) retrieval of the column-averaged HDO/H2O ratio from the Japanese Greenhouse Gases Observing Satellite (GOSAT). From synthetic simulation studies, we have estimated that the inferred delta D values will typically have random errors between 20 parts per thousand (desert surface and 30 degrees solar zenith angle) and 120 parts per thousand (conifer surface and 60 degrees solar zenith angle). We find that the retrieval will have a small but significant sensitivity to the presence of cirrus clouds, the HDO a priori profile shape and atmospheric temperature, which has the potential of introducing some regional-scale biases in the retrieval. From comparisons to ground-based column observations from the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON), we find differences between delta D from GOSAT and TCCON of around -30 parts per thousand for northern hemispheric sites which increase up to -70 parts per thousand for Australian sites. The bias for the Australian sites significantly reduces when decreasing the spatial co-location criteria, which shows that spatial averaging contributes to the observed differences over Australia. The GOSAT retrievals allow mapping the global distribution of delta D and its variations with season, and we find in our global GOSAT retrievals the expected strong latitudinal gradients with significant enhancements over the tropics. The comparisons to the ground-based TCCON network and the results of the global retrieval are very encouraging, and they show that delta D retrieved from GOSAT should be a useful product that can be used to complement datasets from thermal-infrared sounder and ground-based networks and to extend the delta D dataset from SWIR retrievals established from the recently ended SCIAMACHY mission.
The Department of Energy (DOE) established the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement-Unmanned Aerospace Vehicle (ARM-UAV) Program to acquire valuable atmospheric data, to demonstrate the utility of UAVs for atmospheric research, and to foster the development of instruments and measurement techniques suitable for use on UAVs. These objectives have been pursued in the context of obtaining important scientific data primarily at Department of Energy (DOE) ARM ground sites. ARM-UAV flights have been conducted with a variety of manned and unmanned aircraft, including the General Atomics - Aeronautical Systems "GNAT" and "Altus" UAVs, and instrumented Grob "Egrett", DOE-owned "Twin Otter", and Scaled Composites "Proteus" piloted aircraft. For the recent flight series with Proteus, ARMUAV developed a new payload of airborne instruments and used it to obtain climate-related data during a field deployment at the DOE Southern Great Plains site. The new payload made maximum use of commercial hardware and networked sensors to provide maximum performance and flexibility with minimum cost. 2003 by Sandia Corporation.
The nocturnal stable boundary layer (SBL) can generally be classified into the weakly stable boundary layer (wSBL) and very stable boundary layer (vSBL). Within the wSBL, turbulence is relatively continuous, whereas in the vSBL, turbulence is intermittent and not well characterized. Differentiating characteristics of each type of SBL are still unknown. Herein, thermodynamic and kinematic data collected by a suite of instruments in north central Oklahoma in autumn 2012 are analyzed to better understand both SBL regimes and their differentiating characteristics. Many low-level jets were observed during the experiment, as it took place near a climatological maximum. A threshold wind speed, above which bulk shear-generated turbulence develops, is found to exist up to 300 m. The threshold wind speed must also be exceeded at lower heights (down to the surface) in order for strong turbulence to develop. Composite profiles, which are normalized using low-level jet scaling, of potential temperature, wind speed, vertical velocity variance, and the third-order moment of vertical velocity (w'3 ) are produced for weak and moderate/strong turbulence regimes, which exhibit features of the vSBL and wSBL, respectively. Within the wSBL, turbulence is generated at the surface and transported upward. In the vSBL, values of vertical velocity variance are small throughout the entire boundary layer, likely due to the fact that a strong surface inversion typically forms after sunset. The temperature profile tends to be approximately isothermal in the lowest portions of the wSBL, and it did not substantially change over the night. Within both types of SBL, stability in the residual layer tends to increase as the night progresses. It is thought that this stability increase is due to differential warm air advection, which frequently occurs in the southern Great Plains when southerly low-level jets and a typical north-south temperature gradient are present. Differential radiative flux divergence also contributes to this increase in stability.
Tracking clouds using scanning cloud radars can help to document the temporal evolution of cloud properties well before large-drop formation (weather radar "first echo''). These measurements also complement cloud and precipitation tracking using geostationary satellites and weather radars. Here, two-dimensional (2D) along-wind range-height indicator observations of a population of shallow cumuli (with and without precipitation) from the 35-GHz scanning Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) cloud radar (SACR) at the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)-ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site are presented. Observations from the ARM SGP network of scanning precipitation radars are used to provide the larger-scale context of the cloud field and to highlight the advantages of the SACR to detect the numerous small nonprecipitating cloud elements. A new cloud identification and tracking algorithm (CITA) is developed to track cloud elements. In CITA, a cloud element is identified as a region having a contiguous set of pixels exceeding a preset reflectivity and size threshold. The high temporal resolution of the SACR 2D observations (30 s) allows for an area superposition criteria algorithm to match cloud elements at consecutive times. Following CITA, the temporal evolution of cloud-element properties (number, size, and maximum reflectivity) is presented. The vast majority of the designated elements during this cumulus event were short-lived nonprecipitating clouds having an apparent life cycle shorter than 15 min. The advantages and disadvantages of cloud tracking using an SACR are discussed.
The identification of rain contaminated ground-based radiometric measurements is addressed by means of two brightness temperature-based criteria, namely SSI, defined as the ratio of temperature at 30 and 23.8 GHz, and TB30 based on the 30-GHz temperature value alone. Threshold values of these criteria were chosen according to the rate of misclassification set by the experimenter after classification of a training subset of data on the basis of the atmospheric conditions as observed by a variety of rain sensors. A comparison of the discrimination performances indicates that SSI detects light rain events that are missed by both the rain-gauge and TB30 but it suffers from the intrinsic response time of the brightness temperature in the presence of rain. The analysis is referred to 1 year of measurements collected at the ARM SGP facility in Oklahoma.
This study focuses on the occurrence and type of clouds observed in West Africa, a subject that has been neither much documented nor quantified. It takes advantage of data collected above Niamey. Niger, in 2006 with the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility. A survey of cloud characteristics inferred from ground measurements is presented with a focus on their seasonal evolution and diurnal cycle. Four types of clouds are distinguished: high-level clouds, deep convective clouds, shallow convective clouds, and midlevel clouds. A frequent occurrence of the latter clouds located at the top of the Saharan air layer is highlighted. High-level clouds are ubiquitous throughout the period whereas shallow convective clouds are mainly noticeable during the core of the monsoon. The diurnal cycle of each cloud category and its seasonal evolution are investigated. CloudSat and Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) data are used to demonstrate that these four cloud types (in addition to stratocumulus clouds over the ocean) are not a particularity of the Niamey region and that midlevel clouds are present over the Sahara during most of the monsoon season. Moreover, using complementary datasets, the radiative impact of each type of clouds at the surface level has been quantified in the short- and longwave domains. Midlevel clouds and anvil clouds have the largest impact, respectively, in longwave (about 15 W m-2) and shortwave (about 150 W m-2) radiation. Furthermore, midlevel clouds exert a strong radiative forcing during the spring at a time when the other cloud types are less numerous.
Three-dimensional atmospheric turbulence measurements were conducted from seven sonic anemometers on two different towers in Barrow, AK, during the spring of 2009 as part of the Ocean-Atmosphere-Sea-Ice-Snow (OASIS) campaign. This was the largest number of side-by-side atmospheric turbulence measurements in the Arctic at one time. These analyses allowed for (1) a comparison of the instrumental measurement approaches and (2) a comparison of the variability of the lower atmospheric surface layer at these measurement heights and tower sites. Friction velocity estimates were affected for a sonic anemometer that was operated on the tower in the near vicinity of a building module. Boundary layer height (BLH) was estimated from sonic anemometer measurements based both on a turbulence variable estimator and a temperature gradient method. Results from both methods were compared to radiosonde-estimated BLH and generally underestimated the BLH for shallower depths. Conditions with low BLH (< 100 m) often lasted for several days. The seven ozone depletion events (ODE) that were observed during the OASIS campaign had a tendency of coinciding with BLH of less than 50 m and stable atmospheric conditions; however, there was not a clear relationship between the occurrence of ODE and wind speed or wind direction as ODE occurred under a wide range of conditions of BLH, wind speed, local wind direction, and atmospheric stability. Comparisons of these surface layer dynamics to sites in Antarctica and Greenland reveal that boundary layer dynamics are not the primary driving force that fosters the unique ozone chemistry at this coastal Arctic site.
Motion stabilized, shipborne Doppler lidar measurements made during a Southeastern Pacific coupled climate system field experiment are being combined with scanning C-band precipitation radar, vertically staring W-band cloud radar, in-situ aerosol optical and chemical measurements and LES modeling to study the processes controlling the properties of stratocumulus clouds. Of particular interest is the life cycle of precipitation related structures called Pockets of Open Cells (POC) that open large areas within a stratus deck and expose the ocean surface. The stratocumulus clouds and embedded POC have an impact on planetary albedo and are not handled well in global scale climate models.
This paper describes the upper-tropospheric humidity (UTH) product derived from brightness temperature measurements of the Sondeur Atmospherique du Profil d'Humidite Intertropicale par Radiometrie (SAPHIR) radiometer on board the Megha-Tropiques satellite. Under nonscattering conditions, the observations from three channels of SAPHIR-located at 0.2, 1.1, and 2.8 GHz, respectively, around the 183.31-GHz strong water vapor absorption band-are interpreted into three different UTHs following a well-established method and thus describing the humidity content of the upper to midtroposphere. The evaluation of the UTHs is performed using reference UTHs defined from relative humidity (RH) profiles from radiosoundings of two field campaigns: the Cooperative Indian Ocean Experiment on Intraseasonal Variability in the Year 2011/Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation/Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Madden-Julian Oscillation Investigation Experiment (CINDY/DYNAMO/AMIE) and a Megha-Tropiques dedicated campaign in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, during the summer of 2012. A budget of the various uncertainties associated with each component of the evaluation method (such as the radiometric sensitivity and the radiative transfer computations) was created to achieve a more robust comparison between the two UTH estimates. The comparison between the reference UTHs and the SAPHIR UTHs reveals small global biases of lower than 2% RH on average, with correlation coefficients between 0.86 and 0.89. Taking into account the individual uncertainties gives root-mean-square errors of regressions that range between 0.92% and 4.71%. These three UTHs provide a vertical distribution of the RH that is suitable for studying various temporal and spatial scales of the tropical variability. The signature of a mesoscale convective system on its environment is briefly presented to illustrate the capability of this new dataset. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
Macro-physical characteristics of cirrus above Shouxian were studied using data from micro-pulse lidar (MPL ) and millimeter wave cloud radar (MWCR) on mobile facilities of atmospheric radiation measurement (ARM). Enlarged profile and comprehensive information of cirrus were retrieved when combined data of these two facilities were used, which indicated the necessity of joint observation. On this basis, statistical analysis was performed using cirrus cases occurred above Shouxian during observation period. The results showed that the averaged height of cloud base ranged from 5 to 10 km, and cirrus with a base height of 6-11 km had higher occurrence frequency. The averaged thickness of cloud ranged from 0.25 to 5 km, among which cirrus with a thickness of 0.5-2.5 km accounted for 90.8%. The statistical results also showed the occurrence frequency of cirrus process reduced with the increase of duration, the maximum and mean duration were 35.5 h and 3.6 h respectively, and cirrus with duration less than 5 h accounted for 82.5%.
The GHG-CCI project is one of several projects of the European Space Agency's (ESA) Climate Change Initiative (CCI). The goal of the CCI is to generate and deliver data sets of various satellite-derived Essential Climate Variables (ECVs) in line with GCOS (Global Climate Observing System) requirements. The "ECV Greenhouse Gases" (ECV GHG) is the global distribution of important climate relevant gases - atmospheric CO2 and CH4 - with a quality sufficient to obtain information on regional CO2 and CH4 sources and sinks. Two satellite instruments deliver the main input data for GHG-CCI: SCIAMACHY/ENVISAT and TANSO-FTS/GOSAT. The first order priority goal of GHG-CCI is the further development of retrieval algorithms for near-surface-sensitive column-averaged dry air mole fractions of CO2 and CH4, denoted XCO2 and XCH4, to meet the demanding user requirements. GHG-CCI focuses on four core data products: XCO2 from SCIAMACHY and TANSO and XCH4 from the same two sensors. For each of the four core data products at least two candidate retrieval algorithms have been independently further developed and the corresponding data products have been quality-assessed and inter-compared. This activity is referred to as "Round Robin" (RR) activity within the CCI. The main goal of the RR was to identify for each of the four core products which algorithms should be used to generate the Climate Research Data Package (CRDP). The CRDP will essentially be the first version of the ECV GHG. This manuscript gives an overview of the GHG-CCI RR and related activities. This comprises the establishment of the user requirements, the improvement of the candidate retrieval algorithms and comparisons with ground-based observations and models. The manuscript summarizes the final RR algorithm selection decision and its justification. Comparison with ground-based Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON) data indicates that the "breakthrough" single measurement precision requirement has been met for SCIAMACHY and TANSO XCO2 (<3 ppm) and TANSO XCH4 (<17 ppb). The achieved relative accuracy for XCH4 is 3-15 ppb for SCIAMACHY and 2-8 ppb for TANSO depending on algorithm and time period. Meeting the 0.5 ppm systematic error requirement for XCO2 remains a challenge: approximately 1 ppm has been achieved at the validation sites but also larger differences have been found in regions remote from TCCON. More research is needed to identify the causes for the observed differences. In this context GHG-CCI suggests taking advantage of the ensemble of existing data products, for example, via the EnseMble Median Algorithm (EMMA). (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved.
Cloud radiative effects are examined using long-term datasets collected at the U.S. Department of Energy's three Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Climate Research Facilities in the tropical western Pacific Ocean. The surface radiation budget, cloud populations, and cloud radiative effects are quantified by partitioning the data by cloud type, time of day, and large-scale modes of variability such as El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phase and wet/dry seasons at Darwin, Australia. The novel aspect of this analysis is the breakdown of aggregate cloud radiative effects by cloud type across the diurnal cycle. The Nauru Island (Republic of Nauru) cloud populations and subsequently the surface radiation budget are strongly impacted by ENSO variability, whereas the cloud populations over Manus Island (Papua New Guinea) shift only slightly in response to changes in ENSO phase. The Darwin site exhibits large seasonal monsoon-related variations. When present, deeper convective clouds have a strong influence on the amount of radiation that reaches the surface. Their limited frequency reduces their aggregate radiative impact, however. The largest source of shortwave cloud radiative effects at all three sites comes from low clouds. The observations are used to demonstrate that potential model biases in the amplitude of the diurnal cycle and mean cloud frequency would lead to larger errors in the surface energy budget when compared with biases in the timing of the diurnal cycle of cloud frequency. These results provide solid benchmarks to evaluate model simulations of cloud radiative effects in the tropics. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
This article presents observations and model simulations of the low-level nocturnal structure of the atmosphere over West Africa. The measurements are taken from the dry-season Special Observing Period (SOP-0) of the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA), at Niamey, Niger, on 23 and 24 January 2006. During this time, mesoscale structures in the atmospheric aerosol loadings were observed. The available observations indicate that these mesoscale features at Niamey are consistent with the passage of gravity currents or bores in the northerly Harmattan winds. Model simulations at resolutions down to 1 km indicate that the mesoscale structures are caused by nocturnal frontogenesis in the baroclinic zone to the south of the Sahara in the winter months. This frontogenesis is a continental-scale phenomenon, which has significant implications for the uplift and transport of dust and biomass-burning aerosols in the region. An accompanying frontogenetic feature appears further south in the model simulations, associated with the winter intertropical front. The frontogenesis is possibly linked with the development of structures showing characteristics of canonical mesoscale phenomena, including internal bores and gravity currents. Representation of these features in the UK Met Office Unified Model at different resolutions (from 12 km to 1 km) is discussed.
The Climate Research Facility of the US Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program operates a network of ground-based microwave radiometers. Data and retrievals from these instruments have been available to the scientific community for almost 20 yr. In the past five years the network has expanded to include a total of 22 microwave radiometers deployed in various locations around the world. The new instruments cover a frequency range between 22 and 197 GHz and are consistently and automatically calibrated. The latest addition to the network is a new generation of three-channel radiometers, currently in the early stage of deployment at all ARM sites. The network has been specifically designed to achieve increased accuracy in the retrieval of precipitable water vapor (PWV) and cloud liquid water path (LWP) with the long-term goal of providing the scientific community with reliable, calibrated radiometric data and retrievals of important geophysical quantities with well-characterized uncertainties. The radiometers provide high-quality, continuous datasets that can be utilized in a wealth of applications and scientific studies. This paper presents an overview of the microwave instrumentation, calibration procedures, data, and retrievals that are available for download from the ARM data archive.
At the top of the planetary boundary layer, the entrainment of air, which incorporates dry and warm air from the free troposphere into the boundary layer, is a key process for exchanges with the free troposphere since it controls the growth of the boundary layer. Here, we focus on the semi-arid boundary layer where the entrainment process is analyzed using aircraft observations collected during the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis experiment and large-eddy simulations. The role of the entrainment is specifically enhanced in this region where very large gradients at the planetary boundary-layer top can be found due to the presence of the moist, cold monsoon flow on which the dry, warm Harmattan flow is superimposed. A first large-eddy simulation is designed based on aircraft observations of 5 June 2006 during the transition period between dry conditions and the active monsoon phase. The simulation reproduces the boundary-layer development and dynamics observed on this day. From this specific case, sensitivity tests are carried out to cover a range of conditions observed during seven other flights made in the same transition period in order to describe the entrainment processes in detail. The combination of large-eddy simulations and observations allows us to test the parametrization of entrainment in a mixed-layer model with zero-order and first-order approximations for the entrainment zone. The latter representation of the entrainment zone gives a better fit with the conditions encountered in the Sahelian boundary layer during the transition period because large entrainment thicknesses are observed. The sensitivity study also provides an opportunity to highlight the contribution of shear stress and scalar jumps at the top of the boundary layer in the entrainment process, and to test a relevant parametrization published in the recent literature for a mixed-layer model.
A newly developed daytime cloud property retrieval algorithm, FAME-C (Freie Universitat Berlin AATSR MERIS Cloud), is presented. Synergistic observations from the Advanced Along-Track Scanning Radiometer (AATSR) and the Medium Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MERIS), both mounted on the polar-orbiting Environmental Satellite (Envisat), are used for cloud screening. For cloudy pixels two main steps are carried out in a sequential form. First, a cloud optical and microphysical property retrieval is performed using an AATSR near-infrared and visible channel. Cloud phase, cloud optical thickness, and effective radius are retrieved, and subsequently cloud water path is computed. Second, two cloud top height products are retrieved based on independent techniques. For cloud top temperature, measurements in the AATSR infrared channels are used, while for cloud top pressure, measurements in the MERIS oxygen-A absorption channel are used. Results from the cloud optical and microphysical property retrieval serve as input for the two cloud top height retrievals. Introduced here are the AATSR and MERIS forward models and auxiliary data needed in FAME-C. Also, the optimal estimation method, which provides uncertainty estimates of the retrieved property on a pixel basis, is presented. Within the frame of the European Space Agency (ESA) Climate Change Initiative (CCI) project, the first global cloud property retrievals have been conducted for the years 2007-2009. For this time period, verification efforts are presented, comparing, for four selected regions around the globe, FAME-C cloud optical and microphysical properties to cloud optical and microphysical properties derived from measurements of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on the Terra satellite. The results show a reasonable agreement between the cloud optical and microphysical property retrievals. Biases are generally smallest for marine stratocumulus clouds: -0.28, 0.41 mu m and 0.18 gm(-2) for cloud optical thickness, effective radius and cloud water path, respectively. This is also true for the root-mean-square deviation. Furthermore, both cloud top height products are compared to cloud top heights derived from ground-based cloud radars located at several Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) sites. FAME-C mostly shows an underestimation of cloud top heights when compared to radar observations. The lowest bias of -0.3 km is found for AATSR cloud top heights for single-layer clouds, while the highest bias of -3.0 km is found for AATSR cloud top heights for multilayer clouds. Variability is low for MERIS cloud top heights for low-level clouds, and high for MERIS cloud top heights for mid-level and high-level single-layer clouds, as well as for both AATSR and MERIS cloud top heights for multilayer clouds.
The use of millimeter wavelength radars for probing precipitation has recently gained interest. However, estimation of precipitation variables is not straightforward due to strong signal attenuation, radar receiver saturation, antenna wet radome effects and natural microphysical variability. Here, an automated algorithm is developed for routinely retrieving rain rates from the profiling Ka-band (35-GHz) ARM (Atmospheric Radiation Measurement) zenith radars (KAZR). A 1-dimensional, simple, steady state microphysical model is used to estimate impacts of microphysical processes and attenuation on the profiles of radar observables at 35-GHz and thus provide criteria for identifying situations when attenuation or microphysical processes dominate KAZR observations. KAZR observations are also screened for signal saturation and wet radome effects. The algorithm is implemented in two steps: high rain rates are retrieved by using the amount of attenuation in rain layers, while low rain rates are retrieved from the reflectivity-rain rate (Z(e)-R) relation. Observations collected by the KAZR, rain gauge, disdrometer and scanning precipitating radars during the DY-NAMO/AMIE field campaign at the Gan Island of the tropical Indian Ocean are used to validate the proposed approach. The differences in the rain accumulation from the proposed algorithm are quantified. The results indicate that the proposed algorithm has a potential for deriving continuous rain rate statistics in the tropics.
A long data record (14 yr) of ground-based observations at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site is analyzed to document the macroscopic and dynamical properties of daytime fair-weather cumulus clouds during summer months. First, a fuzzy logic-based algorithm is developed to eliminate insect radar echoes in the boundary layer that hinder the ability to develop representative cloud statistics. The refined dataset is used to document the daytime composites of fair-weather cumulus clouds properties. Doppler velocities are processed for lower reflectivity thresholds that contain small cloud droplets having insignificant terminal velocities; thus, Doppler velocities are used as tracers of air motion. The algorithm is implemented to process the entire 14-yr dataset of cloud radar vertical velocity data. Composite diurnal variations of the cloud vertical velocity statistics, surface parameters, and profiles of updraft and downdraft fractions, bulk velocity of updrafts and downdrafts, and updraft and downdraft mass flux are calculated. Statistics on the cloud geometrical properties such as cloud thickness, cloud chord length, cloud spacing, and aspect ratios are calculated on the cloud scale. The present dataset provides a unique insight into the daytime evolution and statistical description of the turbulent structure inside fair-weather cumuli over land.
This study evaluates the ability of the Community Atmospheric Model version 5 (CAM5) to reproduce low clouds observed by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) cloud radar at Manus Island of the tropical western Pacific during the Years of Tropical Convection. Here low clouds are defined as clouds with their tops below the freezing level and bases within the boundary layer. Low-cloud statistics in CAM5 simulations and ARM observations are compared in terms of their general occurrence, mean vertical profiles, fraction of precipitating versus nonprecipitating events, diurnal cycle, and monthly time series. Other types of clouds are included to put the comparison in a broader context. The comparison shows that the model overproduces total clouds and their precipitation fraction but underestimates low clouds in general. The model, however, produces excessive low clouds in a thin layer between 954 and 930 hPa, which coincides with excessive humidity near the top of the mixed layer. This suggests that the erroneously excessive low clouds stem from parameterization of both cloud and turbulence mixing. The model also fails to produce the observed diurnal cycle in low clouds, not exclusively due to the model coarse grid spacing that does not resolve Manus Island. This study demonstrates the utility of ARM long-term cloud observations in the tropical western Pacific in verifying low clouds simulated by global climate models, illustrates issues of using ARM observations in model validation, and provides an example of severe model biases in producing observed low clouds in the tropical western Pacific.
The location-scale and whitening properties of wavelets make them more favorable for interpolating high-frequency monitoring data than Fourier-based methods. In the past, wavelets have been used to simplify the dependence structure in multiple time or spatial series, but little has been done to apply wavelets as a modeling tool in a space-time setting, or, in particular, to take advantage of the localization of wavelets to capture the local dynamic characteristics of high-frequency meteorological data. This paper analyzes minute-by-minute atmospheric pressure data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program using different wavelet coefficient structures at different scales and incorporating spatial structure into the model. This approach of modeling space-time processes using wavelets produces accurate point predictions with low uncertainty estimates, and also enables interpolation of available data from sparse monitoring stations to a high density grid and production of meteorological maps on large spatial and temporal scales. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This study provides the first assessment of the Noah and Noah-GEM (photosynthesis-based Gas exchange Evapotranspiration Model) land surface model using observations from the Avignon, France CarboEurope agricultural site during 2006 and 2007. Noah and Noah-GEM are integrated within a Land Data Assimilation System (LDAS) framework. The LDAS fields of soil moisture, temperature field, and surface and subsurface water and energy budget terms are useful for meteorological model initial conditions, and agricultural applications. The models were integrated using 1km grid spacing with meteorological forcing from the Japanese global reanalysis (JRA). Consistent with results compiled over the US Southern Great Plains, the Noah and Noah-GEM based model performance was comparable for sorghum and wheat cropland. Both models had a relatively better performance during the low LAI plant growth stage however the performance deteriorated during peak green conditions and the bias between the observed and modeled latent heat flux was consistently higher by 100Wm-2. To further diagnose this bias, a series of experiments were undertaken by considering observed biweekly dynamic leaf area index (LAI), vegetation height, roughness length (z0), and albedo changes. These experiments were conducted using Noah-GEM because of similar results between Noah and Noah-GEM and also because Noah-GEM has an explicit C3 and C4 photosynthesis model. The results were compared with the default model run as well as in situ surface flux and soil moisture/temperature observations. Prescribing onsite characteristics led to modest improvements in the model fields, however the model still could not capture the peak growing heat flux values of sensible heat for both C3 and C4 plants. Additional experiments were undertaken to investigate the inconsistencies in model parameterization. These include experiments with a CO2-based transpiration and thermal roughness formulation in surface-layer physics; the surface coupling coefficient through the Zilitinkevich constant; effect of soil texture and model spin-up time. Based on the study results and the experiments, we conclude that a high resolution LDAS/Noah setup can be driven using global reanalysis fields producing reasonably good results when evaluated against point observations. The model performance was enhanced after using dynamic LAI and albedo feedback; however the key feature was the tuning of the model structure through coupling and modifying Vmax as a function of LAI. These results highlight the need for improvements in the turbulent surface layer and plant physiological modules, and model deficiencies cannot be overcome by onsite biophysical data alone. [All rights reserved Elsevier].
The continuous, over two-decade data record from the Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR) is ideal for climate research which requires timely and accurate information of important atmospheric components such as gases, aerosols, and clouds. Except for parameters derived from MFRSR measurement ratios, which are not impacted by calibration error, most applications require accurate calibration factor(s), angular correction, and spectral response function(s) from calibration. Although a laboratory lamp (or reference) calibration can provide all the information needed to convert the instrument readings to actual radiation, in situ calibration methods are implemented routinely (daily) to fill the gaps between lamp calibrations. In this paper, the basic structure and the data collection and pretreatment of the MFRSR are described. The laboratory lamp calibration and its limitations are summarized. The cloud screening algorithms for MFRSR data are presented. The in situ calibration methods, the standard Langley method and its variants, the ratio-Langley method, the general method, Alexandrov's comprehensive method, and Chen's multi-channel method, are outlined. The reason that all these methods do not fit for all situations is that they assume some properties, such as aerosol optical depth (AOD), total optical depth (TOD), precipitable water vapor (PWV), effective size of aerosol particles, or angstrom coefficient, are invariant over time. These properties are not universal and some of them rarely happen. In practice, daily calibration factors derived from these methods should be smoothed to restrain error.
This study develops a novel uncertainty quantification (UQ) method for cloud microphysical property retrievals using variance-based decomposition and global sensitivity index. In this UQ framework, empirical orthogonal function (EOF) analysis is applied to the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) ground-based observations, which are the inputs for the cloud retrieval studied here. The principal components (PCs) in the EOF expansion are parameterized as random input variables, and hence, the input dimension is greatly reduced (up to a factor of 50), allowing large ensemble of random samplings. The EOF expansion improves the accuracy of the uncertainty estimation by taking into account the cross correlations in the input data profiles. This method enables a probabilistic representation of a retrieval process by adding normally distributed perturbations into PCs of sample means of input data profiles within a time window. Therefore, it effectively facilitates objective validation of climate models against cloud retrievals under a probabilistic framework for rigorous statistical inferences. Moreover, the variance-based global sensitivity index analysis, part of this method, attributes the output uncertainties to each individual source, thus providing directions for improving retrieval algorithms and observation strategies. For demonstration, we apply this method to quantify the uncertainties of the ARM program's baseline cloud retrieval algorithm for an ice cloud case observed at the Southern Great Plains site on 9 March 2000.
This paper focuses on the variability in entrainment rate in individual cumulus clouds using the entrainment rate estimated on the scale of 5 m in 186 shallow cumulus clouds from eight aircraft flights, using in situ observations from the RACORO field campaign (the routine atmospheric radiation measurement aerial facility clouds with low optical water depths optical radiative observations) over the atmospheric radiation measurement Southern Great Plains site, USA. The result shows that the mean entrainment rate of all the 186 clouds systematically decreases from the cloud edge to the cloud center. Further analysis of the fluctuation of entrainment rate shows that the probability density function of entrainment rate in each flight can be fitted by the lognormal, gamma, or Weibull distributions virtually equally well, with the Weibull distribution being the best. The parameter "standard deviation" in the lognormal distribution is weakly negatively correlated, and the other parameters in the three distributions are positively correlated with relative humidity in the entrained dry air and dilution effect, respectively. Entrainment rate is negatively correlated with droplet concentration, droplet size, and liquid water content, but positively correlated with relative dispersion. The effect of entrainment rate on the spectral shape of cloud droplet size distribution is examined and linked to the systems theory on the cloud droplet size distribution.
We have extensively analysed the interdependence between cloud optical depth, droplet effective radius, liquid water path (LWP) and geometric thickness for stratiform warm clouds using ground-based observations. In particular, this analysis uses cloud optical depths retrieved from untapped solar background signals that are previously unwanted and need to be removed in most lidar applications. Combining these new optical depth retrievals with radar and microwave observations at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Climate Research Facility in Oklahoma during 2005-2007, we have found that LWP and geometric thickness increase and follow a power-law relationship with cloud optical depth regardless of the presence of drizzle; LWP and geometric thickness in drizzling clouds can be generally 20-40% and at least 10% higher than those in non-drizzling clouds, respectively. In contrast, droplet effective radius shows a negative correlation with optical depth in drizzling clouds and a positive correlation in non-drizzling clouds, where, for large optical depths, it asymptotes to 10 m. This asymptotic behaviour in non-drizzling clouds is found in both the droplet effective radius and optical depth, making it possible to use simple thresholds of optical depth, droplet size, or a combination of these two variables for drizzle delineation. This paper demonstrates a new way to enhance ground-based cloud observations and drizzle delineations using existing lidar networks.
The ground-based Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) and NASA Aerosol Robotic Network (AERONET) routinely monitor clouds using zenith radiances at visible and near-infrared wavelengths. Using the transmittance calculated from such measurements, we have developed a new retrieval method for cloud effective droplet size and conducted extensive tests for non-precipitating liquid water clouds. The underlying principle is to combine a liquid-water-absorbing wavelength (i.e., 1640 nm) with a non-water-absorbing wavelength for acquiring information on cloud droplet size and optical depth. For simulated stratocumulus clouds with liquid water path less than 300 g m(-2) and horizontal resolution of 201 m, the retrieval method underestimates the mean effective radius by 0.8 mu m, with a root-mean-squared error of 1.7 mu m and a relative deviation of 13 %. For actual observations with a liquid water path less than 450 g m(-2) at the ARM Oklahoma site during 2007-2008, our 1.5-min-averaged retrievals are generally larger by around 1 mu m than those from combined ground-based cloud radar and microwave radiometer at a 5-min temporal resolution. We also compared our retrievals to those from combined shortwave flux and microwave observations for relatively homogeneous clouds, showing that the bias between these two retrieval sets is negligible, but the error of 2.6 mu m and the relative deviation of 22% are larger than those found in our simulation case. Finally, the transmittance-based cloud effective droplet radii agree to better than 11% with satellite observations and have a negative bias of 1 mu m. Overall, the retrieval method provides reasonable cloud effective radius estimates, which can enhance the cloud products of both ARM and AERONET.
Aerosol-cloud interactions begin with the direct involvement of aerosols in cloud nucleation followed by its indirect contribution to the formation of precipitation through autoconversion. Since the treatments of cloud microphysics in climate models are highly parameterized, a thorough study is needed to examine the range of simulations associated with different parameterizations of aerosol-cloud interactions. Unlike previous studies focused on climate-mode simulations, our interest is in short-range model response before the development of model bias and the compensation of multiple feedback mechanisms. In this study, we modified CAM4 to explore model sensitivity to treatments of cloud nucleation and autoconversion over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains (SGP) facility during the May 2003 Aerosol Intensive Operations Period (IOP) under the Cloud-Associated Parameterizations Testbed framework. Simulated liquid water path and low cloud fraction were sensitive to the choice of parameterization; however, change of modeled precipitation was insignificant with varying parameterization in short-range (similar to 3 day) simulation. In general, simulated cloud properties were more sensitive to the treatment of autoconversion than nucleation. Calculations of sulfate indirect effects indicate that the change of shortwave fluxes from cloud lifetime effect is much more sensitive to cloud parameterizations than cloud albedo effect. Microphysical feedbacks complicate the local response of the climate system and can yield a positive 2nd indirect sulfate forcing that counters the expectation that increases in aerosol concentration decrease the shortwave fluxes. As a result, the calculated total sulfate indirect forcing over SGP varies widely ranging from -20.1 to -22.1 W m(-2) during the IOP.
The upper-air sounding network for Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (DYNAMO) has provided an unprecedented set of observations for studying the MJO over the Indian Ocean, where coupling of this oscillation with deep convection first occurs. With 72 rawinsonde sites and dropsonde data from 13 aircraft missions, the sounding network covers the tropics from eastern Africa to the western Pacific. In total nearly 26 000 soundings were collected from this network during the experiment's 6-month extended observing period (from October 2011 to March 2012). Slightly more than half of the soundings, collected from 33 sites, are at high vertical resolution. Rigorous post-field phase processing of the sonde data included several levels of quality checks and a variety of corrections that address a number of issues (e.g., daytime dry bias, baseline surface data errors, ship deck heating effects, and artificial dry spikes in slow-ascent soundings). Because of the importance of an accurate description of the moisture field in meeting the scientific goals of the experiment, particular attention is given to humidity correction and its validation. The humidity corrections, though small relative to some previous field campaigns, produced high-fidelity moisture analyses in which sonde precipitable water compared well with independent estimates. An assessment of operational model moisture analyses using corrected sonde data shows an overall good agreement with the exception at upper levels, where model moisture and clouds are more abundant than the sonde data would indicate.
We retrieved column-averaged dry air mole fractions of atmospheric carbon dioxide (X-CO2) from backscattered short-wave infrared (SWIR) sunlight measured by the Japanese Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT). Over two years of X-CO2 retrieved from GOSAT is compared with X-CO2 inferred from collocated SWIR measurements by seven ground-based Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON) stations. The average difference between GOSAT and TCCON X-CO2 for individual TCCON sites ranges from -0.87 ppm to 0.77 ppm with a mean value of 0.1 ppm and standard deviation of 0.56 ppm. We find an average bias between all GOSAT and TCCON X-CO2 retrievals of -0.20 ppm with a standard deviation of 2.26 ppm and a correlation coefficient of 0.75. One year of X-CO2 was retrieved from GOSAT globally, which was compared to global 3-D GEOS-Chem chemistry transport model calculations. We find that the latitudinal gradient, seasonal cycles, and spatial variability of GOSAT and GEOS-Chem agree well in general with a correlation coefficient of 0.61. Regional differences between GEOS-Chem model calculations and GOSAT observations are typically less than 1 ppm except for the Sahara and central Asia where a mean difference between 2 to 3 ppm is observed, indicating regional biases in the GOSAT X-CO2 retrievals unobserved by the current TCCON network. Using a bias correction scheme based on linear regression these regional biases are significantly reduced, approaching the required accuracy for surface flux inversions.
Comparisons between direct measurements and modeled values of vertical air motions in precipitating systems are complicated by differences in temporal and spatial scales. On one hand, vertically profiling radars more directly measure the vertical air motion but do not adequately capture full storm dynamics. On the other hand, vertical air motions retrieved from two or more scanning Doppler radars capture the full storm dynamics but require model constraints that may not capture all updraft features because of inadequate sampling, resolution, numerical constraints, and the fact that the storm is evolving as it is scanned by the radars. To investigate the veracity of radar-based retrievals, which can be used to verify numerically modeled vertical air motions, this article presents several case studies from storm events around Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia, in which measurements from a dual-frequency radar profiler system and volumetric radar-based wind retrievals are compared. While a direct comparison was not possible because of instrumentation location, an indirect comparison shows promising results, with volume retrievals comparing well to those obtained from the profiling system. This prompted a statistical analysis of an extended period of an active monsoon period during the Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE). Results show less vigorous deep convective cores with maximum updraft velocities occurring at lower heights than some cloud-resolving modeling studies suggest.
Many uncertainties remain in the relationship between clouds, aerosols, and radiation, especially in locations along tropical margins. Two regions of particular interest because of their perceived susceptibility to climate change are the Sahel region of West Africa and the Amazon Rainforest of Brazil. Both the Sahel and the Amazon Rainforest have two distinct seasons with varying cloudiness, but the impacts of this cloudiness upon the regional radiation budgets are only vaguely understood. With this in mind, the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Mobile Facility #1 collected a full year of surface based observations in Niamey, Niger in the central Sahel and Manacapuru, Brazil in the Amazon Rainforest. These surface observations were complemented by top of the atmosphere observations from the Geostationary Earth Radiation Budget instrument and Clouds and the Earth's Radiant Energy System. This dissertation presents observations from these deployments with focus on the diurnal cycle of meteorology and the accompanying radiation budget at the surface, top of the atmosphere, and within the atmospheric column itself in the Sahel and upon the seasonal cycle in the Amazon. Cloud radiative effects (CREs) are examined in detail. Although both regions are located in the tropics and share some common features, their climates and radiation budgets are very different. Among the conclusions of this work are that clouds reflect incoming solar insolation and prevent the loss of longwave radiation to space in both locations, though the large loading of water vapor and abundance of clouds in the Amazon create a more substantial impact at the boundaries of the atmospheric column. It is demonstrated that CREs are dominated by the shortwave spectrum in the Sahel and by the longwave spectrum in the Amazon Rainforest. It is further demonstrated that CREs are themselves a diurnally varying signal that cannot be appropriately quantified by instantaneous measurements from polar orbiting satellites, but that can be quantified by geostationary satellites equipped with broadband radiometers. Sensitivity to the averaging period employed in the analysis of CREs is also demonstrated, further reinforcing the notion that instantaneous measurements of CREs are likely to produce significant misrepresentations of these effects. ProQuest Subject Headings: Meteorology, Climate change, Hydrologic sciences, Geophysics, African studies, Latin American studies. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
The diurnal cycles of meteorological and radiation variables are analysed during the wet and dry seasons over the Sahel region of West Africa during 2006 using surface data collected by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) programme's Mobile Facility, satellite radiation measurements from the Geostationary Earth Radiation Budget (GERB) instrument aboard Meteosat 8, and reanalysis products from the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP). The meteorological analysis builds upon past studies of the diurnal cycle in the region by incorporating diurnal cycles of lower tropospheric wind profiles, thermodynamic profiles, integrated water vapour and liquid water measurements, and cloud radar measurements of frequency and location. These meteorological measurements are complemented by 3 h measurements of the diurnal cycles of the top-of-atmosphere (TOA) and surface short-wave (SW) and long-wave (LW) radiative fluxes and cloud radiative effects (CREs), and the atmospheric radiative flux divergence (RFD) and atmospheric CREs. Cirrus cloudiness during the dry season is shown to peak in coverage in the afternoon, while convective clouds during the wet season are shown to peak near dawn and have an afternoon minimum related to the rise of the lifting condensation level into the Saharan Air Layer. The LW and SW RFDs and CREs exhibit diurnal cycles during both seasons, but there is a relatively small difference in the LW cycles during the two seasons (10 - 30 W m(-2) depending on the variable and time of day). Small differences in the TOA CREs during the two seasons are overwhelmed by large differences in the surface SW CREs, which exceed 100 W m(-2). A significant surface SW CRE during the wet season combined with a negligible TOA SW CRE produces a diurnal cycle in the atmospheric CRE that is modulated primarily by the SW surface CRE, peaks at midday at approximate to 150 W m(-2), and varies widely from day to day.
The diurnal cycles of meteorological and radiation variables are analysed during the wet and dry seasons over the Sahel region of West Africa during 2006 using surface data collected by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) programme's Mobile Facility, satellite radiation measurements from the Geostationary Earth Radiation Budget (GERB) instrument aboard Meteosat 8, and reanalysis products from the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP). The meteorological analysis builds upon past studies of the diurnal cycle in the region by incorporating diurnal cycles of lower tropospheric wind profiles, thermodynamic profiles, integrated water vapour and liquid water measurements, and cloud radar measurements of frequency and location. These meteorological measurements are complemented by 3 h measurements of the diurnal cycles of the top-of-atmosphere (TOA) and surface short-wave (SW) and long-wave (LW) radiative fluxes and cloud radiative effects (CREs), and the atmospheric radiative flux divergence (RFD) and atmospheric CREs. Cirrus cloudiness during the dry season is shown to peak in coverage in the afternoon, while convective clouds during the wet season are shown to peak near dawn and have an afternoon minimum related to the rise of the lifting condensation level into the Saharan Air Layer. The LW and SW RFDs and CREs exhibit diurnal cycles during both seasons, but there is a relatively small difference in the LW cycles during the two seasons (10 - 30 W msup-2/sup depending on the variable and time of day). Small differences in the TOA CREs during the two seasons are overwhelmed by large differences in the surface SW CREs, which exceed 100 W msup-2/sup. A significant surface SW CRE during the wet season combined with a negligible TOA SW CRE produces a diurnal cycle in the atmospheric CRE that is modulated primarily by the SW surface CRE, peaks at midday at 150 W msup-2/sup, and varies widely from day to day. 2015 Royal Meteorological Society.
Ground-based radar and lidar observations obtained at the Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Tropical Western Pacific site located in Darwin, Australia, are used to retrieve ice cloud properties in anvil and cirrus clouds. Cloud microphysical properties derived from four different retrieval algorithms (two radar-lidar and two radar-only algorithms) are compared by examining mean profiles and probability density functions of effective radius (R-e), ice water content (IWC), visible extinction coefficient, ice number concentration, ice crystal fall speed, and vertical air velocity. Retrieval algorithm uncertainty is quantified using radiative flux closure exercises. The effect of uncertainty in retrieved quantities on the cloud radiative effect and radiative heating rates is presented. Our analysis shows that IWC compares well among algorithms, but R-e shows significant discrepancies, which are attributed primarily to assumptions of particle shape. Uncertainty in R-e and IWC translates into sometimes large differences in cloud shortwave radiative effect (CRE) though the majority of cases have a CRE difference of roughly 10 W m(-2) on average. These differences, which we believe are primarily driven by the uncertainty in R-e, can cause up to 2 K/d difference in the radiative heating rates between algorithms.
Understanding controls on the stable isotopic composition of precipitation and vapor in the West Pacific Warm Pool is vital for accurate representation of convective processes in models and correct interpretation of isotope-based paleoclimate proxies, yet a lack of direct observational evidence precludes the utility of these isotopic tracers. Results from a measurement campaign at Manus Island, Papua New Guinea from 28 April to 8 May 2013 demonstrate variability in the stable isotopic composition (D and 18O) of precipitation and vapor in individual precipitation events and over a 10 day period. Isotope ratios in water vapor and precipitation progressively increased throughout the period of measurement, coincident with a transition from high to low regional convective activity. Vapor isotope ratios approached equilibrium with seawater during the quiescent period and likely reflected downwind advection of distilled vapor and re-evaporation of rainfall during the period of regional convection. On a 5 min timescale across individual storms, isotope ratios in precipitation were strongly correlated with isotope ratios in surface vapor. However, individual precipitation isotope ratios were not strongly correlated with surface meteorological data, including precipitation rate, in all storms. Yet across all events, precipitation deuterium excess was negatively correlated with surface temperature, sea level pressure, and cloud base height and positively correlated with precipitation rate and relative humidity. Paired surface precipitation and vapor isotope ratios indicate condensation at boundary layer temperatures. The ratio of these paired values decreased with increasing precipitation rate during some precipitation events, suggesting rain re-evaporation and precipitation in equilibrium with an isotopically distinct upper level moisture source. Results from the short campaign support the interpretation that isotope ratios in precipitation and vapor in the western tropical Pacific are indicators of regional convective intensity at the timescale of days to weeks. However, a nonstationary relationship between rain rate and stable isotope ratios in precipitation during individual convective events suggests that condensation, rain evaporation, moisture recycling, and regional moisture convergence do not always yield an amount effect relationship on intraevent timescales.
The cloud vertical distribution and especially the cloud base height, which is linked to cloud type, are important characteristics in order to describe the impact of clouds on climate. In this work, several methods for estimating the cloud vertical structure (CVS) based on atmospheric sounding profiles are compared, considering the number and position of cloud layers, with a ground-based system that is taken as a reference: the Active Remote Sensing of Clouds (AR-SCL). All methods establish some conditions on the relative humidity, and differ in the use of other variables, the thresholds applied, or the vertical resolution of the profile. In this study, these methods are applied to 193 radiosonde profiles acquired at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains site during all seasons of the year 2009 and endorsed by Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) images, to confirm that the cloudiness conditions are homogeneous enough across their trajectory. The perfect agreement (i.e., when the whole CVS is estimated correctly) for the methods ranges between 26 and 64 %; the methods show additional approximate agreement (i.e., when at least one cloud layer is assessed correctly) from 15 to 41 %. Further tests and improvements are applied to one of these methods. In addition, we attempt to make this method suitable for low-resolution vertical profiles, like those from the outputs of reanalysis methods or from the World Meteorological Organization's (WMO) Global Telecommunication System. The perfect agreement, even when using low-resolution profiles, can be improved by up to 67 % (plus 25 % of the approximate agreement) if the thresholds for a moist layer to become a cloud layer are modified to minimize false negatives with the current data set, thus improving overall agreement.
The diurnal cycle is an important mode of variability in the Tropics that is not correctly predicted by numerical weather prediction models. The African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analyses program provided for the first time a large dataset to document the diurnal cycle over West Africa. In order to assess the processes and mechanisms that are crucial for the representation of the diurnal cycle, four different regimes that characterize the varying conditions encountered over land along a surface-temperature gradient are selected. A single-column modelling framework is used in order to relate the features of the simulated diurnal cycle to physical processes in these four distinct cases. Particular attention is given to providing realistic initial and boundary conditions at the surface and in the atmosphere, enabling the use of independent data for the evaluation of the simulations. The study focuses on the simulation of the surface energy budget and low-level characteristics and analyzes the balance between cloud/surface/boundary-layer processes at the sub-diurnal time scale. The biases and drawbacks of the simulations are found to change along the temperature gradient but they always involve the representation of clouds. They also explain parts of the bias obtained with the same model when used in a less constrained configuration. Surface-atmosphere-cloud interactions arising at the sub-diurnal time scale are invoked to explain the distinct features of the low-level diurnal cycle observed over West Africa.
A modelling case study designed from observations from the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) is presented and discussed. It aims at investigating the issue of initiation of convection in a semi-arid environment. This case corresponds to the development of local daytime convection mainly controlled by boundary layer characteristics rather than by atmospheric synoptic scales. A high-resolution three-dimensional simulation is presented and extensively evaluated against the numerous observations available for 10 July 2006 from the AMMA campaign. The simulation, run over a domain of 100 100 km, is able to represent main boundary layer structures and processes leading to deep convection initiation as well as the formation of density currents. Sensitivity tests point to the key role of the sensible heat flux, the humidity of low to mid levels, the lapse rate at low levels and of a mesoscale ascent to initiate deep convection in those semi-arid conditions, while evaporation of precipitation is shown to play a minor role. This study thus provides a case to investigate the ability of parametrizations to handle the initiation of convection in a semi-arid environment.
A case of daytime development of deep convection over tropical semi-arid land is used to evaluate the representation of convection in global and regional models. The case is based on observations collected during the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) field campaign and includes two distinct transition phases, from clear sky to shallow cumulus and from cumulus to deep convection. Different types of models, run with identical initial and boundary conditions, are intercompared: a reference large-eddy simulation (LES), single-column model (SCM) version of four different Earth system models that participated in the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project 5 exercise, the SCM version of the European Centre for Medium-range Weather Forecasts operational forecast model, the SCM version of a mesoscale model and a bulk model. Surface fluxes and radiative heating are prescribed preventing any atmosphere-surface and cloud-radiation coupling in order to simplify the analyses so that it focuses only on convective processes. New physics packages are also evaluated within this framework. As the LES correctly reproduces the observed growth of the boundary layer, the gradual development of shallow clouds, the initiation of deep convection and the development of cold pools, it provides a basis to evaluate in detail the representation of the diurnal cycle of convection by the other models and to test the hypotheses underlying convective parametrizations. Most SCMs have difficulty in representing the timing of convective initiation and rain intensity, although substantial modifications to boundary-layer and deep-convection parametrizations lead to improvements. The SCMs also fail to represent the mid-level troposphere moistening during the shallow convection phase, which we analyse further. Nevertheless, beyond differences in timing of deep convection, the SCM models reproduce the sensitivity to initial and boundary conditions simulated in the LES regarding boundary-layer characteristics, and often the timing of convection triggering.
Aerosols that serve as cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) and ice nuclei (IN) have the potential to profoundly influence precipitation processes. Furthermore, changes in orographic precipitation have broad implications for reservoir storage and flood risks. As part of the CalWater field campaign (2009-2011), the variability and associated impacts of different aerosol sources on precipitation were investigated in the California Sierra Nevada using an aerosol time-of-flight mass spectrometer for precipitation chemistry, S-band profiling radar for precipitation classification, remote sensing measurements of cloud properties, and surface meteorological measurements. The composition of insoluble residues in precipitation samples collected at a surface site contained mostly local biomass burning and longrange- transported dust and biological particles (2009), local sources of biomass burning and pollution (2010), and longrange transport (2011). Although differences in the sources of insoluble residues were observed from year to year, the most consistent source of dust and biological residues were associated with storms consisting of deep convective cloud systems with significant quantities of precipitation initiated in the ice phase. Further, biological residues were dominant (up to 40 %) during storms with relatively warm cloud temperatures (up to -15 degrees C), supporting the important role bioparticles can play as ice nucleating particles. On the other hand, lower percentages of residues from local biomass burning and pollution were observed over the three winter seasons (on average 31 and 9 %, respectively). When precipitation quantities were relatively low, these insoluble residues most likely served as CCN, forming smaller more numerous cloud droplets at the base of shallow cloud systems, and resulting in less efficient riming processes. Ultimately, the goal is to use such observations to improve the mechanistic linkages between aerosol sources and precipitation processes to produce more accurate predictive weather forecast models and improve water resource management.
We outline a methodology using broadband and spectral irradiances to quantify aerosol direct effects on the surface diffuse shortwave (SW) irradiance. Best Estimate Flux data span a 13 year timeframe at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. Screened clear-sky irradiances and aerosol optical depth (AOD), for solar zenith angles <= 65 degrees, are used to estimate clear-sky diffuse irradiances. We validate against detected clear-sky observations from SGP's Basic Radiation System (BRS). BRS diffuse irradiances were in accordance with estimates, producing a root-mean-square error and mean bias errors of 4.0 W/m(2) and -1.4 W/m(2), respectively. Absolute differences show 99% of estimates within +/- 10 W/m(2) (10%) of the mean BRS observations. Clear-sky diffuse estimates are used to derive quantitative estimates of aerosol radiative effects, represented as the aerosol diffuse irradiance (ADI). ADI is the contribution of diffuse SW to global SW, attributable to scattering of atmospheric transmission by natural plus anthropogenic aerosols. Estimated slope for the ADI as a function of AOD indicates an increase of similar to 22 W/m(2) in diffuse SW for every 0.1 increase in AOD. Such significant increases in the diffuse fraction could possibly increase photosynthesis. Annual mean ADI is 28.2 W/m(2), and heavy aerosol loading at SGP provides up to a maximum increase of 120 W/m(2) in diffuse SW over background conditions. With regard to seasonal variation, the mean diffuse forcings are 17.2, 33.3, 39.0, and 23.6 W/m(2) for winter, spring, summer, and fall, respectively.
We outline a methodology using broadband and spectral irradiances to quantify aerosol direct effects on the surface diffuse shortwave (SW) irradiance. Best Estimate Flux data span a 13 year timeframe at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. Screened clear-sky irradiances and aerosol optical depth (AOD), for solar zenith angles 65, are used to estimate clear-sky diffuse irradiances. We validate against detected clear-sky observations from SGP's Basic Radiation System (BRS). BRS diffuse irradiances were in accordance with estimates, producing a root-mean-square error and mean bias errors of 4.0 W/m2 and -1.4 W/m2, respectively. Absolute differences show 99% of estimates within 10 W/m2 (10%) of the mean BRS observations. Clear-sky diffuse estimates are used to derive quantitative estimates of aerosol radiative effects, represented as the aerosol diffuse irradiance (ADI). ADI is the contribution of diffuse SW to global SW, attributable to scattering of atmospheric transmission by natural plus anthropogenic aerosols. Estimated slope for the ADI as a function of AOD indicates an increase of ~22 W/m2 in diffuse SW for every 0.1 increase in AOD. Such significant increases in the diffuse fraction could possibly increase photosynthesis. Annual mean ADI is 28.2 W/m2, and heavy aerosol loading at SGP provides up to a maximum increase of 120 W/m2 in diffuse SW over background conditions. With regard to seasonal variation, the mean diffuse forcings are 17.2, 33.3, 39.0, and 23.6 W/m2 for winter, spring, summer, and fall, respectively.
Plant canopy interception of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) drives carbon dioxide (CO2), water and energy cycling in the soil-plant-atmosphere system. Quantifying intercepted PAR requires accurate measurements of total incident PAR above canopies and direct beam and diffuse PAR components. While some regional data sets include these data, e. g. from Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program sites, they are not often applicable to local research sites because of the variable nature (spatial and temporal) of environmental variables that influence incoming PAR. Currently available instrumentation that measures diffuse and direct beam radiation separately can be cost prohibitive and require frequent adjustments. Alternatively, generalized empirical relationships that relate atmospheric variables and radiation components can be used but require assumptions that increase the potential for error. Our goal here was to construct and test a cheaper, highly portable instrument alternative that could be used at remote field sites to measure total, diffuse and direct beam PAR for extended time periods without supervision. The apparatus tested here uses a fabricated, solar powered rotating shadowband and other commercially available parts to collect continuous hourly PAR data. Measurements of total incident PAR had nearly a one-to-one relationship with total incident radiation measurements taken at the same research site by an unobstructed point quantum sensor. Additionally, measurements of diffuse PAR compared favorably with modeled estimates from previously published data, but displayed significant differences that were attributed to the important influence of rapidly changing local environmental conditions. The cost of the system is about 50% less than comparable commercially available systems that require periodic, but not continual adjustments. Overall, the data produced using this apparatus indicates that this instrumentation has the potential to support ecological research via a relatively inexpensive method to collect continuous measurements of total, direct beam and diffuse PAR in remote locations.
To validate the combined atmospheric radiative transfer model(CART) code on calculating the scattering of atmospheric molecules and aerosol particles, comparisons of CART scattering results (including the single scattering radiance and multiple scattering radiance) to the moderate resolution atmospheric transmittance and radiance code (MODTRAN5. 0) and discrete ordinate radiative transfer (DISORT) model were made, respectively, on the wide range of observation zenith angle, solar zenith angle, the differ of observation and solar azimuth angle, the asymmetry factor of scattering phase function. The results show that the relative percent difference is less than 10% mostly, 15% at maxmium on single scattering radiance, and less than 2.5% on multiple scattering radiance. CART have a good calculation precision and efficiency on atmospheric background radiance calculation including multiple scattering.
Single-column models (SCM) are useful test beds for investigating the parameterization schemes of numerical weather prediction and climate models. The usefulness of SCM simulations are limited, however, by the accuracy of the best estimate large-scale observations prescribed. Errors estimating the observations will result in uncertainty in modeled simulations. One method to address the modeled uncertainty is to simulate an ensemble where the ensemble members span observational uncertainty. This study first derives an ensemble of large-scale data for the Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) based on an estimate of a possible source of error in the best estimate product. These data are then used to carry out simulations with 11 SCM and two cloud-resolving models (CRM). Best estimate simulations are also performed. All models show that moisture-related variables are close to observations and there are limited differences between the best estimate and ensemble mean values. The models, however, show different sensitivities to changes in the forcing particularly when weakly forced. The ensemble simulations highlight important differences in the surface evaporation term of the moisture budget between the SCM and CRM. Differences are also apparent between the models in the ensemble mean vertical structure of cloud variables, while for each model, cloud properties are relatively insensitive to forcing. The ensemble is further used to investigate cloud variables and precipitation and identifies differences between CRM and SCM particularly for relationships involving ice. This study highlights the additional analysis that can be performed using ensemble simulations and hence enables a more complete model investigation compared to using the more traditional single best estimate simulation only.
A persistent problem for numerical weather and climate models is the representation of tropical convective precipitation which for the most part occurs on spatial and temporal scales too small and too short to be explicitly resolved. Given that model parameterizations represent this subgrid convection as a function of the large-scale atmospheric state, an understanding of the strongest relationships between the two scales is needed. This study introduces a method to create two concurrent long-term data sets that describe both the large-scale atmosphere and the characteristics of the small-scale convection. Important relationships between these two scales are then investigated. It is found that convective precipitation, through convective precipitation area, has the strongest relationship with dynamical variables such as moisture convergence and vertical velocity at midlevels. The magnitude of the fluctuations of convective strength about the mean is found to be anticorrelated with the strength of the large-scale variables, indicating a more stochastic behavior of tropical convection in weakly than strongly forced regimes, respectively. Atmospheric stability related variables are not found to be positively related to either convective precipitation area or convective precipitation intensity, which is often an assumption made in convective parameterization. On the contrary, in a more unstable atmosphere, there is lower convective precipitation.
The local environment during the joint Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) Investigation Experiment (AMIE)-Cooperative Indian Ocean Experiment on Intraseasonal Variability in Year 2011 (CINDY2011)-Dynamics of the MJO (DYNAMO) field experiments caused frequent occurrences of sidelobe artifacts in theNCARS-Pol radar dataset. Although generally low in radar reflectivity factor value (less than 5 dBZ), this contamination still proved problematic for Bragg scattering layer (BSL) analysis, generating numerous false BSL edge detections. In this paper, a statistical filtering technique is developed that effectively removes these false BSL edge detections, utilizing a new version of BSL analysis based on range-height indicator (RHI) data instead of plan position indicator data. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
Observations from the US Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program are used to evaluate the ability of the NASA GISS ModelE global climate model in reproducing observed interactions between aerosols and clouds. Included in the evaluation are comparisons of basic meteorology and aerosol properties, droplet activation, effective radius parameterizations, and surfacebased evaluations of aerosolcloud interactions (ACI). Differences between the simulated and observed ACI are generally large, but these differences may result partially from vertical distribution of aerosol in the model, rather than the representation of physical processes governing the interactions between aerosols and clouds. Compared to the current observations, the ModelE often features elevated droplet concentrations for a given aerosol concentration, indicating that the activation parameterizations used may be too aggressive. Additionally, parameterizations for effective radius commonly used in models were tested using ARM observations, and there was no clear superior parameterization for the cases reviewed here. This lack of consensus is demonstrated to result in potentially large, statistically significant differences to surface radiative budgets, should one parameterization be chosen over another.
AbstractTwo recent activities offer an opportunity to test general circulation model (GCM) convection and its interaction with large-scale dynamics for observed Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) events. This study evaluates the sensitivity of the Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) GCM to entrainment, rain evaporation, downdrafts, and cold pools. Single Column Model versions that restrict weakly entraining convection produce the most realistic dependence of convection depth on column water vapor (CWV) during the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement MJO Investigation Experiment at Gan Island. Differences among models are primarily at intermediate CWV where the transition from shallow to deeper convection occurs. GCM 20-day hindcasts during the Year of Tropical Convection that best capture the shallow-deep transition also produce strong MJOs, with significant predictability compared to Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission data. The dry anomaly east of the disturbance on hindcast day 1 is a good predictor of MJO onset and evolution. Initial CWV there is near the shallow-deep transition point, implicating premature onset of deep convection as a predictor of a poor MJO simulation. Convection weakly moistens the dry region in good MJO simulations in the first week; weakening of large-scale subsidence over this time may also affect MJO onset. Longwave radiation anomalies are weakest in the worst model version, consistent with previous analyses of cloud/moisture greenhouse enhancement as the primary MJO energy source. Our results suggest that both cloud/moisture-radiative interactions and convection-moisture sensitivity are required to produce a successful MJO simulation.
Compared to satellite-derived heating profiles, the Goddard Institute for Space Studies general circulation model (GCM) convective heating is too deep and its stratiform upper-level heating is too weak. This deficiency highlights the need for GCMs to parameterize the mesoscale organization of convection. Cloud-resolving model simulations of convection near Darwin, Australia, in weak wind shear environments of different humidities are used to characterize mesoscale organization processes and to provide parameterization guidance. Downdraft cold pools appear to stimulate further deep convection both through their effect on eddy size and vertical velocity. Anomalously humid air surrounds updrafts, reducing the efficacy of entrainment. Recovery of cold pool properties to ambient conditions over 5-6 h proceeds differently over land and ocean. Over ocean increased surface fluxes restore the cold pool to prestorm conditions. Over land surface fluxes are suppressed in the cold pool region; temperature decreases and humidity increases, and both then remain nearly constant, while the undisturbed environment cools diurnally. The upper-troposphere stratiform rain region area lags convection by 5- 6 h under humid active monsoon conditions but by only 1-2 h during drier break periods, suggesting that mesoscale organization is more readily sustained in a humid environment. Stratiform region hydrometeor mixing ratio lags convection by 0-2 h, suggesting that it is strongly influenced by detrainment from convective updrafts. Small stratiform region temperature anomalies suggest that a mesoscale updraft parameterization initialized with properties of buoyant detrained air and evolving to a balance between diabatic heating and adiabatic cooling might be a plausible approach for GCMs.
Doppler cloud radars are amazing tools to characterize cloud and fog properties and to improve their representation in models. However, commercially available cloud radars (35 and 95GHz) are still very expensive, which hinders their widespread deployment. This study presents the development of a lower-cost semioperational 95-GHz Doppler cloud radar called the Bistatic Radar System for Atmospheric Studies (BASTA). To drastically reduce the cost of the instrument, a different approach is used compared to traditional pulsed radars: instead of transmitting a large amount of energy for a very short time period (as a pulse), a lower amount of energy is transmitted continuously. By using a specific signal processing technique, the radar can challenge expensive radars and provide high-quality measurements of cloud and fog. The latest version of the instrument has a sensitivity of about 250 dBZ at 1 km for 3-s integration and a vertical resolution of 25 m. The BASTA radar currently uses four successive modes for specific applications: the 12.5-m vertical resolution mode is dedicated to fog and low clouds, the 25-m mode is for liquid and ice midtropospheric clouds, and the 100- and 200-m modes are ideal for optically thin high-level ice clouds. The advantages of such a radar for calibration procedures and field operations are also highlighted. The radar comes with a set of products dedicated to cloud and fog studies. For instance, cloud mask, corrected Doppler velocity, and multimode products combining the high-sensitivity mode and high-resolution modes are provided.
One of the key clues to consider rainfall as a self-organized critical phenomenon is the existence of power-law distributions for rain-event sizes. We have studied the problem of universality in the exponents of these distributions by means of a suitable statistic whose distribution is inferred by several variations of a permutational test. In contrast to more common approaches, our procedure does not suffer from the difficulties of multiple testing and does not require the precise knowledge of the uncertainties associated to the power-law exponents. When applied to seven sites monitored by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program the tests lead to the rejection of the universality hypothesis, despite the fact that the exponents are rather close to each other. We discuss the reasons of the rejection.
Ice nucleating particles (INPs) are vital for ice initiation in, and precipitation from, mixed-phase clouds. A source of INPs from oceans within sea spray aerosol (SSA) emissions has been suggested in previous studies but remained unconfirmed. Here, we show that INPs are emitted using real wave breaking in a laboratory flume to produce SSA. The number concentrations of INPs from laboratory-generated SSA, when normalized to typical total aerosol number concentrations in the marine boundary layer, agree well with measurements from diverse regions over the oceans. Data in the present study are also in accord with previously published INP measurements made over remote ocean regions. INP number concentrations active within liquid water droplets increase exponentially in number with a decrease in temperature below 0 degrees C, averaging an order of magnitude increase per 5 degrees C interval. The plausibility of a strong increase in SSA INP emissions in association with phytoplankton blooms is also shown in laboratory simulations. Nevertheless, INP number concentrations, or active site densities approximated using "dry" geometric SSA surface areas, are a few orders of magnitude lower than corresponding concentrations or site densities in the surface boundary layer over continental regions. These findings have important implications for cloud radiative forcing and precipitation within low-level and midlevel marine clouds unaffected by continental INP sources, such as may occur over the Southern Ocean.
We have examined the utility of retrieved column-averaged, dry-air mole fractions of CO2 (XCO2) from the Greenhouse Gases Observing Satellite (GOSAT) for quantifying monthly, regional flux estimates of CO2, using the GEOS-Chem four-dimensional variational (4D-Var) data assimilation system. We focused on assessing the potential impact of biases in the GOSAT CO2 data on the regional flux estimates. Using different screening and bias correction approaches, we selected three different subsets of the GOSAT XCO2 data for the 4D-Var inversion analyses, and found that the inferred global fluxes were consistent across the three XCO2 inversions. However, the GOSAT observational coverage was a challenge for the regional flux estimates. In the northern extratropics, the inversions were more sensitive to North American fluxes than to European and Asian fluxes due to the lack of observations over Eurasia in winter and over eastern and southern Asia in summer. The regional flux estimates were also sensitive to the treatment of the residual bias in the GOSAT XCO2 data. The largest differences obtained were for temperate North America and temperate South America, for which the largest spread between the inversions was 1.02 and 0.96 Pg C, respectively. In the case of temperate North America, one inversion suggested a strong source, whereas the second and third XCO2 inversions produced a weak and strong sink, respectively. Despite the discrepancies in the regional flux estimates between the three XCO2 inversions, the a posteriori CO2 distributions were in good agreement (with a mean difference between the three inversions of typically less than 0.5 ppm) with independent data from the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON), the surface flask network, and from the HIAPER Pole-to-Pole Observations (HIPPO) aircraft campaign. The discrepancy in the regional flux estimates from the different inversions, despite the agreement of the global flux estimates suggests the need for additional work to determine the minimum spatial scales at which we can reliably quantify the fluxes using GOSAT XCO2. The fact that the a posteriori CO2 from the different inversions were in good agreement with the independent data although the regional flux estimates differed significantly, suggests that innovative ways of exploiting existing data sets, and possibly additional observations, are needed to better evaluate the inferred regional flux estimates.
Ground-based high temporal and vertical resolution datasets from observations during 2002-07 at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) tropical western Pacific (TWP) site on Manus Island are used to examine the characteristics of clouds and rainfall associated with the active phase of the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) passing over Manus. A composite MJO event at Manus is developed based on the NOAA MJO index 4 and precipitation using 13 events. The cloud characteristics associated with the active phase of the MJO at Manus show a two-phase structure as the wave passes over Manus. During the development phase, congestus plays an important role, and the enhanced convection is located between surface westerly and easterly wind anomalies (type-I structure). During the mature phase, deep convection is the dominant cloud type, and the enhanced convection is collocated with the westerly wind anomalies (type-II structure). Consistent with this two-phase structure, the heavy rainfall frequency also shows a two-peak structure during the MJO disturbance, while light rainfall does not show a clear relation to the intraseasonal disturbance associated with the MJO. In addition, a positive relationship between the precipitation rate and precipitable water vapor exists at Manus, and the atmospheric column is less moist after the passing of theMJOconvection center than before. 2013 American Meteorological Society.
In this study, methods of convective/stratiform precipitation classification and surface rain-rate estimation based on the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) cloud radar measurements were developed and evaluated. Simultaneous and collocated observations of the Ka-band ARM zenith radar (KAZR), two scanning precipitation radars [NCAR S-band/Ka-band Dual Polarization, Dual Wavelength Doppler Radar (S-PolKa) and Texas AM University Shared Mobile Atmospheric Research and Teaching Radar (SMART-R)], and surface precipitation during the Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation/ARM MJOInvestigation Experiment (DYNAMO/AMIE) field campaign were used. The motivation of this study is to apply the unique long-term ARM cloud radar observations without accompanying precipitation radars to the study of cloud life cycle and precipitation features under different weather and climate regimes. The resulting convective/stratiform classification from KAZR was evaluated against precipitation radars. Precipitation occurrence and classified convective/stratiform rain fractions from KAZR compared favorably to the collocated SMART-R and S-PolKa observations. Both KAZR and S-PolKa radars observed about 5% precipitation occurrence. The convective (stratiform) precipitation fraction is about 18% (82%). Collocated disdrometer observations of two days showed an increased number concentration of small and large raindrops in convective rain relative to dominant small raindrops in stratiform rain. The composite distributions of KAZR reflectivity and Doppler velocity also showed distinct structures for convective and stratiform rain. These evidences indicate that the method produces physically consistent results for the two types of rain. A new KAZR-based, two-parameter [the gradient of accumulative radar reflectivity Ze (GAZ) below 1 km and near-surface Ze] rain-rate estimation procedure was developed for both convective and stratiform rain. This estimate was compared with the exponential Z-R (reflectivity-rain rate) relation. The relative difference between the estimated and surface-measured rainfall rates showed that the two-parameter relation can improve rainfall estimation relative to the Z-R relation.
The CloudSat 2C-ICE data product is derived from a synergetic ice cloud retrieval algorithm that takes as input a combination of CloudSat radar reflectivity (Z(e)) and Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observation lidar attenuated backscatter profiles. The algorithm uses a variational method for retrieving profiles of visible extinction coefficient, ice water content, and ice particle effective radius in ice or mixed-phase clouds. Because of the nature of the measurements and to maintain consistency in the algorithm numerics, we choose to parameterize (with appropriately large specification of uncertainty) Z(e) and lidar attenuated backscatter in the regions of a cirrus layer where only the lidar provides data and where only the radar provides data, respectively. To improve the Z(e) parameterization in the lidar-only region, the relations among Z(e), extinction, and temperature have been more thoroughly investigated using Atmospheric Radiation Measurement long-term millimeter cloud radar and Raman lidar measurements. This Z(e) parameterization provides a first-order estimation of Z(e) as a function extinction and temperature in the lidar-only regions of cirrus layers. The effects of this new parameterization have been evaluated for consistency using radiation closure methods where the radiative fluxes derived from retrieved cirrus profiles compare favorably with Clouds and the Earth's Radiant Energy System measurements. Results will be made publicly available for the entire CloudSat record (since 2006) in the most recent product release known as R05.
Radar and sounding data collected during the Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (DYNAMO), the Cooperative Indian Ocean Experiment on Intraseasonal Variability in the Year 2011 (CINDY2011), and the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Madden-Julian Oscillation Investigation Experiment (AMIE) field campaigns in the equatorial Indian Ocean to study the initiation of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) are used to examine the precipitation, cloud, and moisture characteristics during the MJO and convectively coupled Kelvin waves (KWs). Three MJO events and 10 KWs were identified from satellite data using different wave number frequency filters, although event identification varied based on the chosen range of latitude, frequency, and outgoing longwave radiation threshold. Radar and sounding data were composited for the three MJO events, four KWs during the active MJO, five KWs during the suppressed MJO, and one KW during the developing MJO. The MJO composite was generally consistent with past studies, although an increase in convective rain appeared to precede relative humidity increases at low- to middle-levels. The active and developing MJO KWs produced more rain and cloud than suppressed MJO KWs and had a secondary peak in stratiform rain potentially associated with subsynoptic-scale cloud clusters. The suppressed MJO KW composite displayed previously documented structure of vertical moisture buildup prior to the KW passage, whereas the developing MJO KW did not. The KW moisture signature during the active MJO was somewhat overwhelmed by the moist environment associated with the active MJO. Upper level moisture was enhanced after KW passage, regardless of MJO phase. However, upper level moisture was most enhanced after the developing MJO KW passage, providing deep tropospheric moisture that may have assisted MJO onset. Nonprecipitating upper level cloud and midlevel altocumulus/altostratus also persisted after most KW passages.
This article explores the uncertainties associated with evaluating a global atmospheric model with radar reflectivity observations. A forward operator for radar reflectivity (ZmVar) is described and used for the comparison of the ECMWF global numerical weather prediction model short-range forecasts with radar data from CloudSat. A sensitivity study is performed to determine which differences can be attributed to either specific radar forward operator assumptions or to deficiencies in the global model. The results show that model-derived reflectivities are particularly sensitive to the definition of subgrid precipitation fraction, as precipitation dominates the radar reflectivity signal, but also to the choice of particle size distribution and scattering properties of the different hydrometeor categories. However, there are a number of consistent differences in the reflectivity comparison that are significantly larger than can be explained by the sensitivity tests. This suggests that these discrepancies are due to deficiencies in the model cloud and precipitation frequency of occurrence and hydrometeor water contents. These include too frequent occurrence at high altitudes, too low occurrence in the Southern Hemisphere storm track and an overestimate of rain in warm-phase low cloud. The study shows the value of CloudSat for evaluating the model in terms of radar reflectivity and highlights the importance of taking into account forward operator uncertainties for both model evaluation and data assimilation applications. Copyright (C) 2012 Royal Meteorological Society
This study aims to achieve a better understanding of the initiation of deep convection in the Sahel by using the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analyses (AMMA) dataset. Based on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) radar, wind profiler, satellite data, surface flux and meteorological stations, we have characterised the atmospheric convection which occurred over Niamey during the onset period of the monsoon. From 6 to 31 July, radar reflectivity fields combined with brightness temperatures were used to classify the type of convection observed each day within a 50 km radius of the MIT radar location. Four types of convection have been identified: fair weather (FW) with a clear sky throughout the entire day, shallow convection (SH), afternoon locally initiated deep convection (LC), and propagating deep convection (PC). Subsequently, the mechanisms responsible for the initiation of local deep convection were investigated. Neither early morning convective available potential energy nor the convective triggering potential allowed the onset of local deep convection to be predicted correctly. In effect, they were both favourable to deep convection most of the time, while convective inhibition was typically quite large. Our results show that the daytime growth of the atmospheric boundary layer needed to be sufficient for local deep convection to occur during that period. Convergence lines, which grew within the morning clear-air roll organisation, were found to be precursors of local deep convection. Classes FW, SH and LC ultimately behaved quite similarly, with notable convergence in the lower troposphere, but FW showed smaller boundary-layer growth, and FW and SH classes revealed a significant divergence above the boundary layer. Most cases of LC generated a circular gust front. These density currents almost always generated new convective cells. 2013 Royal Meteorological Society.
This study aims to achieve a better understanding of the initiation of deep convection in the Sahel by using the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analyses (AMMA) dataset. Based on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) radar, wind profiler, satellite data, surface FLux and meteorological stations, we have characterised the atmospheric convection which occurred over Niamey during the onset period of the monsoon. From 6 to 31 July, radar reFLectivity fields combined with brightness temperatures were used to classify the type of convection observed each day within a 50 km radius of the MIT radar location. Four types of convection have been identified: fair weather (FW) with a clear sky throughout the entire day, shallow convection (SH), afternoon locally initiated deep convection (LC), and propagating deep convection (PC). Subsequently, the mechanisms responsible for the initiation of local deep convection were investigated. Neither early morning convective available potential energy nor the convective triggering potential allowed the onset of local deep convection to be predicted correctly. In effect, they were both favourable to deep convection most of the time, while convective inhibition was typically quite large. Our results show that the daytime growth of the atmospheric boundary layer needed to be sucient for local deep convection to occur during that period. Convergence lines, which grew within the morning clear-air roll organisation, were found to be precursors of local deep convection. Classes FW, SH and LC ultimately behaved quite similarly, with notable convergence in the lower troposphere, but FW showed smaller boundary-layer growth, and FW and SH classes revealed a significant divergence above the boundary layer. Most cases of LC generated a circular gust front. These density currents almost always generated new convective cells.
Atmospheric reanalysis datasets offer a resource for investigating climate processes and extreme events; however, their uncertainties must first be addressed. In this study, we evaluate the five reanalyzed (20CR, CFSR, Era-Interim, JRA-25, and MERRA) cloud fraction (CF), precipitation rates (PR), and top-of-atmosphere (TOA) and surface radiation budgets using satellite observations during the period 03/2000-02/2012. Compared to the annual averaged CF of 56.7 % from CERES MODIS (CM) four of the five reanalyses underpredict CFs by 1.7-4.6 %, while 20CR overpredicts this result by 7.4 %. PR from the Tropical Rainfall Measurement Mission (TRMM) is 3.0 mm/day and the reanalyzed PRs agree with TRMM within 0.1-0.6 mm/day. The shortwave (SW) and longwave (LW) TOA cloud radiative effects (CREtoa) calculated by CERES EBAF (CE) are -48.1 and 27.3 W/m(2), respectively, indicating a net cooling effect of -20.8 W/m(2). Of the available reanalysis results, the CFSR and MERRA calculated net CREtoa values agree with CE within 1 W/m(2), while the JRA-25 result is similar to 10 W/m(2) more negative than the CE result, predominantly due to the underpredicted magnitude of the LW warming in the JRA-25 reanalysis. A regime metric is developed using the vertical motion field at 500 hPa over the oceans. Aptly named the "ascent" and "descent" regimes, these areas are distinguishable in their characteristic synoptic patterns and the predominant cloud-types; convective-type clouds and marine boundary layer (MBL) stratocumulus clouds. In general, clouds are overpredicted (underpredicted) in the ascent (descent) regime and the biases are often larger in the ascent regime than in the descent regime. PRs are overpredicted in both regimes; however the observed and reanalyzed PRs over the ascent regime are an order of magnitude larger than those over the descent regime, indicating different types of clouds exist in these two regimes. Based upon the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program ground-based and CM satellite observations, as well as reanalyzed results, the annual CFs are 15 % higher at the Azores site than at the Nauru site (70.2 vs. 55.2 %), less SW radiation (similar to 20 %) is transmitted the surface, and less LW radiation (similar to 60 W/m(2)) is emitted back to the surface. Also, the seasonal variations in both CF and surface radiation fluxes are much smaller at the Nauru site than at the Azores site. The dichotomy between the atmospheric ascent and descent regimes is a good measure for determining which parameterization scheme requires more improvement (convective vs. MBL clouds) in these five reanalyses.
A 19-month record of total and single-layered low (3 km), middle (3-6 km), and high (6 km) cloud fractions (CFs) and the single-layered marine boundary layer (MBL) cloud macrophysical and microphysical properties was generated from ground-based measurements at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Azores site between June 2009 and December 2010. This is the most comprehensive dataset of marine cloud fraction and MBL cloud properties. The annual means of total CF and single-layered low, middle, and high CFs derived from ARM radar and lidar observations are 0.702, 0.271, 0.01, and 0.106, respectively. Greater total and single-layered high (6 km) CFs occurred during the winter, whereas singlelayered low (3 km) CFs were more prominent during summer. Diurnal cycles for both total and low CFs were stronger during summer than during winter. The CFs are bimodally distributed in the vertical with a lower peak at ~1 km and a higher peak between 8 and 11km during all seasons, except summer when only the low peak occurs. Persistent high pressure and dry conditions produce more single-layered MBL clouds and fewer total clouds during summer, whereas the low pressure and moist air masses during winter generate more total and multilayered clouds, and deep frontal clouds associated with midlatitude cyclones. The seasonal variations of cloud heights and thickness are also associated with the seasonal synoptic patterns. TheMBL cloud layer is low, warm, and thin with large liquid water path (LWP) and liquid water content (LWC) during summer, whereas during winter it is higher, colder, and thicker with reduced LWP and LWC. The cloud LWP and LWC values are greater at night than during daytime. The monthly mean daytime cloud droplet effective radius re values are nearly constant, while the daytime droplet number concentration Nd basically follows the LWC variation. There is a strong correlation between cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) concentration NCCN and Nd during January-May, probably due to the frequent low pressure systems because upward motion brings more surface CCN to cloud base (well-mixed boundary layer). During summer and autumn, the correlation between Nd and NCCN is not as strong as that during January-May because downward motion from high pressure systems is predominant. Compared to the compiled aircraft in situ measurements during the Atlantic Stratocumulus Transition Experiment (ASTEX), the cloud microphysical retrievals in this study agree well with historical aircraft data. Different air mass sources over the ARM Azores site have significant impacts on the cloud microphysical properties and surface CCN as demonstrated by great variability in NCCN and cloud microphysical properties during some months. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
Six coupled and decoupled marine boundary layer (MBL) clouds were chosen from the 19month Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Mobile Facility data set over the Azores. Thresholds of liquid water potential temperature difference (L)<0.5K (>0.5K) and total water mixing ratio difference q(t)<0.5g/kg (>0.5g/kg) below the cloud base were used for selecting the coupled (decoupled) cases. A schematic diagram was given to demonstrate the coupled and decoupled MBL vertical structures and how they associate with nondrizzle, virga, and rain drizzle events. Out of a total of 2676 5min samples, 34.5% were classified as coupled and 65.5% as decoupled, 36.2% as nondrizzle and 63.8% as drizzle (47.7% as virga and 16.1% as rain), and 33.4% as daytime and 66.6% as nighttime. The decoupled cloud layer is deeper (0.406km) than coupled cloud layer (0.304km), and its liquid water path and cloud droplet effective radius (r(e)) values (122.1gm(-2) and 13.0 mu m) are higher than coupled ones (83.7gm(-2) and 10.4 mu m). Conversely, decoupled stratocumuli have lower cloud droplet number concentration (N-d) and surface cloud condensation nucleus (CCN) concentration (N-CCN) (74.5cm(-3) and 150.9cm(-3)) than coupled stratocumuli (111.7cm(-3) and 216.4cm(-3)). The linear regressions between r(e) and N-d with N-CCN have demonstrated that coupled r(e) and N-d strongly depend on N-CCN and have higher correlations (-0.56 and 0.59) with N-CCN than decoupled results (-0.14 and 0.25). The MBL cloud properties under nondrizzle and virga drizzle conditions are similar to each other but significantly different to those of rain drizzle.
A new method has been developed to retrieve the nighttime marine boundary layer (MBL) cloud microphysical properties, which provides a complete 19-month dataset to investigate the diurnal variation of MBL cloud microphysical properties at the Azores. Compared to the corresponding daytime results presented in the authors' previous study over the Azores region, all nighttime monthly means of cloud liquid water path (LWP) exceed their daytime counterparts with an annual-mean LWP of 140 g m(-2), which is similar to 30.9 g m(-2) larger than daytime. Because the MBL clouds are primarily driven by convective instabilities caused by cloud-top longwave (LW) radiative cooling, more MBL clouds are well mixed and coupled with the surface during the night; thus, its cloud layer is deeper and its LWP is higher. During the day, the cloud layer is warmed by the absorption of solar radiation and partially offsets the cloud-top LW cooling, which makes the cloud layer thinner with less LWP. The seasonal and diurnal variations of cloud LWC and optical depth basically follow the variation of LWP. There are, however, no significant day-night differences and diurnal variations in cloud-droplet effective radius (r(e)), number concentration (N-d), and corresponding surface measured cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) number concentration (N-CCN) (at supersaturation S = 0.2%). Surface N-CCN increases from around sunrise (0300-0600 LT) to late afternoon, which strongly correlates with surface wind speed (r = 0.76) from 0300 to 1900 LT. The trend in hourly-mean N-d is consistent with N-CCN variation from 0000 to 0900 LT but not for afternoon and evening with an averaged ratio (N-d/N-CCN) of 0.35 during the entire study period.
This paper investigates the existence of shear sheltering on turbulence data over a quasi-ideal experimental site in Oklahoma, USA. Originally developed for engineering flows, the shear-sheltering theory is predicated upon the idea of low-level jets blocking large eddies aloft, preventing them from propagating to the surface. In this scenario, suppression of low-frequency turbulence energy and reduction of surface fluxes would be expected. Results from the Oklahoma experiment show instead an enhancement of surface turbulence intensity and of the relative contribution of large scales to total (co)variances for low-level jet cases with strong shear, thus suggesting the absence of shear sheltering at the site. The results underline the complexity of surface-atmosphere interactions in nocturnal stable conditions. Atmospheric modeling of exchange using various scenarios of surface characteristics, flow regimes, and low-level jet properties is suggested to further assess the potential applicability of the shear-sheltering theory to atmospheric flows.
Light scattering and absorption properties of atmospheric aerosols are of vital importance for evaluating their types, sources and radiative forcing. This is of particular interest over the Gangetic-Himalayan (GH) region due to uplift of aerosol from the plains to the Himalayan range, causing serious effects on atmospheric heating, glaciology and monsoon circulation. In this respect, the Ganges Valley Aerosol Experiment (GVAX) was initiated in Nainital from June 2011 to March 2012 with the aim of examining the aerosol properties, source regions, uplift mechanisms and aerosol-radiation-cloud interactions. The present study examines the temporal (diurnal, monthly, seasonal) evolution of scattering (sigma(sp)) and absorption (sigma(sp)) coefficients, their wavelength dependence, and the role of the Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP), boundary-layer dynamics (BLD) and long-range transport (LRT) in aerosol evolution via the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Mobile Facility. The analysis is separated for particles < 10 mu m and < 1 mu m in diameter in order to examine the influence of particle size on optical properties. The sigma(sp) and sigma(sp) exhibit a pronounced seasonal variation between the monsoon low and post-monsoon (November) high, while the scattering wavelength exponent exhibits higher values during the monsoon, in contrast to the absorption Angstrom exponent which maximizes in December-March. The elevated-background measuring site provides the advantage of examining the LRT of natural and anthropogenic aerosols from the IGP and southwest Asia and the role of BLD in the aerosol lifting processes. The results reveal higher aerosol concentrations at noontime along with an increase in mixing height, suggesting influence from IGP. The locally emitted aerosols present higher wavelength dependence of the absorption in October-March compared to the rather well-mixed and aged transported aerosols. Monsoon rainfall and seasonally changing air masses contribute to the alteration of the extensive and intensive aerosol properties.
The Spectrometer for Sky-Scanning, Sun-Tracking Atmospheric Research (4STAR) combines airborne sun tracking and sky scanning with diffraction spectroscopy to improve knowledge of atmospheric constituents and their links to air-pollution/climate. Direct beam hyper-spectral measurement of optical depth improves retrievals of gas constituents and determination of aerosol properties. Sky scanning enhances retrievals of aerosol type and size distribution. 4STAR measurements will tighten the closure between satellite and ground-based measurements. 4STAR incorporates a modular sun-tracking/sky-scanning optical head with fiber optic signal transmission to rack mounted spectrometers, permitting miniaturization of the external optical head, and future detector evolution. Technical challenges include compact optical collector design, radiometric dynamic range and stability, and broad spectral coverage. Test results establishing the performance of the instrument against the full range of operational requirements are presented, along with calibration, engineering flight test, and scientific field campaign data and results.
Large-scale dynamics parameterizations are tested numerically in cloud-resolving simulations, including a new version of the weak-pressure-gradient approximation (WPG) introduced by Edman and Romps (2014), the weak-temperature-gradient approximation (WTG), and a prior implementation of WPG. We perform a series of self-consistency tests with each large-scale dynamics parameterization, in which we compare the result of a cloud-resolving simulation coupled to WTG or WPG with an otherwise identical simulation with prescribed large-scale convergence. In self-consistency tests based on radiative-convective equilibrium (RCE; i.e., no large-scale convergence), we find that simulations either weakly coupled or strongly coupled to either WPG or WTG are self-consistent, but WPG-coupled simulations exhibit a nonmonotonic behavior as the strength of the coupling to WPG is varied. We also perform self-consistency tests based on observed forcings from two observational campaigns: the Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) and the ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) Summer 1995 IOP. In these tests, we show that the new version of WPG improves upon prior versions of WPG by eliminating a potentially troublesome gravity-wave resonance. 2015. The Authors.
Detailed measurements of ice crystals in cirrus clouds were used to compare with results from the Community Atmospheric Model Version 5 (CAM5) global climate model. The observations are from two different field campaigns with contrasting conditions: Atmospheric Radiation Measurements Spring Cloud Intensive Operational Period in 2000 (ARM-IOP), which was characterized primarily by midlatitude frontal clouds and cirrus, and Tropical Composition, Cloud and Climate Coupling (TC4), which was dominated by anvil cirrus. Results show that the model typically overestimates the slope parameter of the exponential size distributions of cloud ice and snow, while the variation with temperature (height) is comparable. The model also overestimates the ice/snow number concentration (0th moment of the size distribution) and underestimates higher moments (2nd through 5th), but compares well with observations for the 1st moment. Overall the model shows better agreement with observations for TC4 than for ARM-IOP in regards to the moments. The mass-weighted terminal fall speed is lower in the model compared to observations for both ARM-IOP and TC4, which is partly due to the overestimation of the size distribution slope parameter. Sensitivity tests with modification of the threshold size for cloud ice to snow autoconversion (D-cs) do not show noticeable improvement in modeled moments, slope parameter and mass weighed fall speed compared to observations. Further, there is considerable sensitivity of the cloud radiative forcing to D-cs, consistent with previous studies, but no value of D-cs improves modeled cloud radiative forcing compared to measurements. Since the autoconversion of cloud ice to snow using the threshold size D-cs has little physical basis, future improvement to combine cloud ice and snow into a single category, eliminating the need for autoconversion, is suggested.
A 60h case study of continental boundary layer cumulus clouds is examined using two large-eddy simulation (LES) models. The case is based on observations obtained during the RACORO Campaign (Routine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Aerial Facility (AAF) Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths (CLOWD) Optical Radiative Observations) at the ARM Climate Research Facility's Southern Great Plains site. The LES models are driven by continuous large-scale and surface forcings and are constrained by multimodal and temporally varying aerosol number size distribution profiles derived from aircraft observations. We compare simulated cloud macrophysical and microphysical properties with ground-based remote sensing and aircraft observations. The LES simulations capture the observed transitions of the evolving cumulus-topped boundary layers during the three daytime periods and generally reproduce variations of droplet number concentration with liquid water content (LWC), corresponding to the gradient between the cloud centers and cloud edges at given heights. The observed LWC values fall within the range of simulated values; the observed droplet number concentrations are commonly higher than simulated, but differences remain on par with potential estimation errors in the aircraft measurements. Sensitivity studies examine the influences of bin microphysics versus bulk microphysics, aerosol advection, supersaturation treatment, and aerosol hygroscopicity. Simulated macrophysical cloud properties are found to be insensitive in this nonprecipitating case, but microphysical properties are especially sensitive to bulk microphysics supersaturation treatment and aerosol hygroscopicity.
Mineral dust aerosols often observed over California in winter and spring, associated with long-range transport from Asia and the Sahara, have been linked to enhanced precipitation based on observations. Local anthropogenic pollution, on the other hand, was shown in previous observational and modeling studies to reduce precipitation. Here we incorporate recent developments in ice nucleation parameterizations to link aerosols with ice crystal formation in a spectralbin cloud microphysical model coupled with the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model in order to examine the relative and combined impacts of dust and local pollution particles on cloud properties and precipitation type and intensity. Simulations are carried out for two cloud cases (from the CalWater 2011 field campaign) with contrasting meteorology and cloud dynamics that occurred on 16 February (FEB16) and 2 March (MAR02). In both cases, observations show the presence of dust and biological particles in a relative pristine environment. The simulated cloud microphysical properties and precipitation show reasonable agreement with aircraft and surface measurements. Model sensitivity experiments indicate that in the pristine environment, the dust and biological aerosol layers increase the accumulated precipitation by 10-20 % from the Central Valley to the Sierra Nevada for both FEB16 and MAR02 due to a similar to 40% increase in snow formation, validating the observational hypothesis. Model results show that local pollution increases precipitation over the windward slope of the mountains by a few percent due to increased snow formation when dust is present, but reduces precipitation by 5-8% if dust is removed on FEB16. The effects of local pollution on cloud microphysics and precipitation strongly depend on meteorology, including cloud dynamics and the strength of the Sierra Barrier Jet. This study further underscores the importance of the interactions between local pollution, dust, and environmental conditions for assessing aerosol effects on cold-season precipitation in California.
The ultimate goal of this study is to improve the representation of convective transport by cumulus parameterization for mesoscale and climate models. As Part 1 of the study, we perform extensive evaluations of cloud-resolving simulations of a squall line and mesoscale convective complexes in midlatitude continent and tropical regions using the Weather Research and Forecasting model with spectral bin microphysics (SBM) and with two double-moment bulk microphysics schemes: a modified Morrison (MOR) and Milbrandt and Yau (MY2). Compared to observations, in general, SBM gives better simulations of precipitation and vertical velocity of convective cores than MOR and MY2 and therefore will be used for analysis of scale dependence of eddy transport in Part 2. The common features of the simulations for all convective systems are (1) the model tends to overestimate convection intensity in the middle and upper troposphere, but SBM can alleviate much of the overestimation and reproduce the observed convection intensity well; (2) the model greatly overestimates Z(e) in convective cores, especially for the weak updraft velocity; and (3) the model performs better for midlatitude convective systems than the tropical system. The modeled mass fluxes of the midlatitude systems are not sensitive to microphysics schemes but are very sensitive for the tropical case indicating strong microphysics modification to convection. Cloud microphysical measurements of rain, snow, and graupel in convective cores will be critically important to further elucidate issues within cloud microphysics schemes.
Accurate derivations of land surface temperature (LST) and land surface emissivity (LSE) from satellite measurements are difficult because the two variables are closely coupled. Features of significant/insignificant temporal variations in LST/LSE are recognized to de-couple both values using multiple-temporal satellite observations over the same geolocation. In this paper, a new approach is presented for deriving LST and LSE simultaneously by using multiple-temporal satellite observations. Two split-window regression formulas are carefully selected for the approach, and two satellite observations over the same geolocation within a certain time interval are utilized. The method is particularly applicable to geostationary satellite missions from which qualified multiple-temporal observations are available. The approach is designed and implemented for generating the LST and LSE values from the U.S. geostationary operational environmental satellite (GOES) eight imager data and the european meteosat second generation (MSG) mission spinning enhanced visible and infrared imager (SEVIRI) data. The performance of the algorithm is evaluated in terms of both accuracy and sensitivity. The retrieval results are compared against ground-truth observations from the U.S. Atmospheric radiation measurement facility and six surface radiation budget network (SURFRAD) stations. The validation results show the LST retrieval accuracy is around 1.95 K with good correlations of up to 0.9038. The method is applicable to the future U.S. GOES-R mission as well as the MSG mission considering that the advanced baseline imager (ABI) onboard the GOES-R satellites and the SEVIRI onboard the MSG satellite have similar split-window bands.
Accurate derivations of land surface temperature (LST) and land surface emissivity (LSE) from satellite measurements are difficult because the two variables are closely coupled. Features of significant/insignificant temporal variations in LST/LSE are recognized to de-couple both values using multiple-temporal satellite observations over the same geolocation. In this paper, a new approach is presented for deriving LST and LSE simultaneously by using multiple-temporal satellite observations. Two split-window regression formulas are carefully selected for the approach, and two satellite observations over the same geolocation within a certain time interval are utilized. The method is particularly applicable to geostationary satellite missions from which qualified multiple-temporal observations are available. The approach is designed and implemented for generating the LST and LSE values from the U. S. geostationary operational environmental satellite (GOES) eight imager data and the european meteosat second generation (MSG) mission spinning enhanced visible and infrared imager (SEVIRI) data. The performance of the algorithm is evaluated in terms of both accuracy and sensitivity. The retrieval results are compared against ground-truth observations from the U. S. Atmospheric radiation measurement facility and six surface radiation budget network (SURFRAD) stations. The validation results show the LST retrieval accuracy is around 1.95 K with good correlations of up to 0.9038. The method is applicable to the future U. S. GOES-R mission as well as the MSG mission considering that the advanced baseline imager (ABI) onboard the GOES-R satellites and the SEVIRI onboard the MSG satellite have similar split-window bands.
Comprehensive, ground-based observations from the US Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurements program Southern Great Plains site are used to study the variability of turbulence forcings and cloud-scale turbulence structures in a continental stratocumulus cloud. The turbulence observations are made from an upward facing cloud (35 GHz) Doppler radar. Cloud base and liquid water path are characterized using a lidar at the surface and a microwave radiometer. The turbulence characterizations are compared and contrasted with those observed in marine stratocumulus clouds. During the 16-h observation period used in this study the cloud-base and cloud-top heights evolve with time and changes in liquid water path observed by the radiometer are consistent with variations in cloud depth. Unlike marine stratocumulus clouds, a diurnal cycle of cloud thickness and liquid water path is not observed. The observed surface latent, sensible, and virtual sensible heat fluxes and the radiative fluxes exhibit a diurnal cycle with values increasing from sunrise to afternoon and decreasing afterwards. During the night, the sensible heat, virtual sensible heat and the net radiative fluxes at the surface are slightly negative. Solar radiative heating prevails in the cloud layer during the day and strong radiative cooling exists at cloud top even during the day. Unlike marine stratocumulus, surface heating described by the convective velocity scale {Mathematical expression} and cloud-top cooling described by {Mathematical expression} are both important in driving the in-cloud turbulence during the day, whereas cloud-top cooling is the exclusive contributor during the night. The combined {Mathematical expression} and {Mathematical expression} (the total velocity scale {Mathematical expression} provides a useful way to track the evolution of the turbulence structure in the cloud. The variance of the radar-measured radial velocity, which is related to resolved turbulence, follows the diurnal cycle and is consistent with the total velocity scale {Mathematical expression} variations. It is higher during the day and lower during the night, which is contrary to that in marine stratocumulus. The {Mathematical expression} values are lowest around sunset when the radiative cooling is also small due to upper-level clouds observed above the low-level stratus. The vertical distribution of the variance results from the surface heating during the day and cloud-top cooling during the night. The squared spectrum width, which is related to turbulence structures within the radar sampling volume (unresolved turbulence) also follows the diurnal cycle. Its vertical distribution indicates that the unresolved turbulence more closely relates to the processes near cloud top. Turbulence in the cloud requires about an hour to respond to the external forcings of surface heating and cloud-top radiative cooling. Positive skewness prevails during the day and negative skewness prevails at night with a sharp transition around sunset. Resolved turbulence dominates near cloud base whereas unresolved turbulence dominates near cloud top. The turbulence characteristics and variability defined in this study can be used to evaluate the time evolution of turbulence structures in large eddy simulation forced by surface and cloud-top radiative forcings. 2013 Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht.
The performance of the Weather Research and Forecasting regional model with chemistry (WRF-Chem) in simulating the spatial and temporal variations in aerosol mass, composition, and size over California is quantified using the extensive meteorological, trace gas, and aerosol measurements collected during the California Nexus of Air Quality and Climate Experiment (CalNex) and the Carbonaceous Aerosol and Radiative Effects Study (CARES) conducted during May and June of 2010. The overall objective of the field campaigns was to obtain data needed to better under-stand processes that affect both climate and air quality, including emission assessments, transport and chemical aging of aerosols, aerosol radiative effects. Simulations were performed that examined the sensitivity of aerosol concentrations to anthropogenic emissions and to long-range transport of aerosols into the domain obtained from a global model. The configuration of WRF-Chem used in this study is shown to reproduce the overall synoptic conditions, thermally driven circulations, and boundary layer structure observed in region that controls the transport and mixing of trace gases and aerosols. Reducing the default emissions inventory by 50% led to an overall improvement in many simulated trace gases and black carbon aerosol at most sites and along most aircraft flight paths; however, simulated organic aerosol was closer to observed when there were no adjustments to the primary organic aerosol emissions. We found that sulfate was better simulated over northern California whereas nitrate was better simulated over southern California. While the overall spatial and temporal variability of aerosols and their precursors were simulated reasonably well, we show cases where the local transport of some aerosol plumes were either too slow or too fast, which adversely affects the statistics quantifying the differences between observed and simulated quantities. Comparisons with lidar and in situ measurements indicate that long-range transport of aerosols from the global model was likely too high in the free troposphere even though their concentrations were relatively low. This bias led to an over-prediction in aerosol optical depth by as much as a factor of 2 that offset the under-predictions of boundary-layer extinction resulting primarily from local emissions. Lowering the boundary conditions of aerosol concentrations by 50% greatly reduced the bias in simulated aerosol optical depth for all regions of California. This study shows that quantifying regional-scale variations in aerosol radiative forcing and determining the relative role of emissions from local and distant sources is challenging during 'clean' conditions and that a wide array of measurements are needed to ensure model predictions are correct for the right reasons. In this regard, the combined CalNex and CARES data sets are an ideal test bed that can be used to evaluate aerosol models in great detail and develop improved treatments for aerosol processes.
The climatic impact of CO2 and other greenhouse gases is usually quantified in terms of radiative forcing', calculated as the difference between estimates of the Earth's radiation field from pre-industrial and presentday concentrations of these gases. Radiative transfer models calculate that the increase in CO2 since 1750 corresponds to a global annualmean radiative forcing at the tropopause of 1.82 +/- 0.19W m(-2) (ref. 2). However, despite widespread scientific discussion and modelling of the climate impacts of well-mixed greenhouse gases, there is little direct observational evidence of the radiative impact of increasing atmospheric CO2. Here we present observationally based evidence of clear-sky CO2 surface radiative forcing that is directly attributable to the increase, between 2000 and 2010, of 22 parts per million atmospheric CO2. The time series of this forcing at the two locations the Southern Great Plains and the North Slope of Alaska are derived from Atmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer spectra' together with ancillary measurements and thoroughly corroborated radiative transfer calculations'. The time series both show statistically significant trends of 0.2 W m(-2) per decade (with respective uncertainties of +/- 0.06 W m(-2) per decade and 0.07 W m(-2) per decade) and have seasonal ranges of 0.1-0.2W m(-2). This is approximately ten per cent of the trend in downwelling longwave radiation'''. These results confirm theoretical predictions of the atmospheric greenhouse effect due to anthropogenic emissions, and provide empirical evidence of how rising CO2 levels, mediated by temporal variations due to photosynthesis and respiration, are affecting the surface energy balance.
Fine-resolution three-dimensional fields have been produced using the Community Gridpoint Statistical Interpolation (GSI) data assimilation system for the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Southern Great Plains region. The GSI system is implemented in a multiscale data assimilation framework using the Weather Research and Forecasting model at a cloud-resolving resolution of 2km. From the fine-resolution three-dimensional fields, large-scale forcing is derived explicitly at grid-scale resolution; a subgrid-scale dynamic component is derived separately, representing subgrid-scale horizontal dynamic processes. Analyses show that the subgrid-scale dynamic component is often a major component over the large-scale forcing for grid scales larger than 200km. The single-column model (SCM) of the Community Atmospheric Model version 5 is used to examine the impact of the grid-scale and subgrid-scale dynamic components on simulated precipitation and cloud fields associated with a mesoscale convective system. It is found that grid-scale size impacts simulated precipitation, resulting in an overestimation for grid scales of about 200km but an underestimation for smaller grids. The subgrid-scale dynamic component has an appreciable impact on the simulations, suggesting that grid-scale and subgrid-scale dynamic components should be considered in the interpretation of SCM simulations.
This paper investigates the mechanisms of convective cloud organization by precipitation-driven cold pools over the warm tropical Indian Ocean during the 2011 Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) Investigation Experiment/Dynamics of the MJO (AMIE/DYNAMO) field campaign. A high-resolution regional model simulation is performed using the Weather Research and Forecasting model during the transition from suppressed to active phases of the November 2011 MJO. The simulated cold pool lifetimes, spatial extent, and thermodynamic properties agree well with the radar and ship-borne observations from the field campaign. The thermodynamic and dynamic structures of the outflow boundaries of isolated and intersecting cold pools in the simulation and the associated secondary cloud populations are examined. Intersecting cold pools last more than twice as long, are twice as large, 41% more intense (measured with buoyancy), and 62% deeper than isolated cold pools. Consequently, intersecting cold pools trigger 73% more convection than do isolated ones. This is due to stronger outflows that enhance secondary updraft velocities by up to 45%. However, cold pool-triggered convective clouds grow into deep convection not because of the stronger secondary updrafts at cloud base, but rather due to closer spacing (aggregation) between clouds and larger cloud clusters that form along the cold pool boundaries when they intersect. The close spacing of large clouds moistens the local environment and reduces entrainment drying, increasing the probability that the clouds further develop into deep convection. Implications for the design of future convective parameterization with cold pool-modulated entrainment rates are discussed. 2015. The Authors.
To improve understanding of the convective processes key to the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) initiation, the Dynamics of the MJO (DYNAMO) and the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) MJO Investigation Experiment (AMIE) collected 4 months of observations from three radars-the S-band dual-polarization Doppler radar (S-Pol), the C-band Shared Mobile Atmospheric Research and Teaching Radar (SMART-R), and Ka-band ARM zenith radar (KAZR)-along with radiosonde and comprehensive surface meteorological instruments on Addu Atoll, Maldives, in the tropical Indian Ocean. One DYNAMO/AMIE hypothesis suggests that the evolution of shallow and congestus cloud populations is essential to the initiation of the MJO. This study focuses on evaluating the ability of these three radars to document the full spectrum of cloud populations and to construct a merged cloud-precipitation radar dataset that can be used to test this hypothesis. Comparisons between collocated observations from the three radars show that KAZR provides the only reliable estimate of shallow clouds, while S-Pol/SMART-R can reasonably detect congestus within the 30-50-km range in addition to precipitating deep clouds. On the other hand, KAZR underestimates cloud-top heights due to rainfall attenuation in ~34% of the precipitating clouds, and an empirical method to correct KAZR cloud-top height bias is proposed. Finally, a merged KAZR-S-Pol dataset is produced to provide improved cloud-top height estimates, total hydrometeor microphysics, and radiative heating rate retrievals. With this dataset the full spectrum of tropical convective clouds during DYNAMO/AMIE can be reliably constructed and, together with complimentary radiosonde data, it can be used to study the role of shallow and congestus clouds in the initiation of the MJO.
Precipitation controls the availability of drinking water and viability of the land to support agriculture. Failure to accurately predict the location, magnitude, and frequency of precipitation impacts not only numerical weather forecasting but also climate modeling. It has been proposed that most rainfall events originate from ice that has melted to form rain. Here we use remote sensing from spaceborne cloud radar to quantify that idea. A new metric is constructed to quantify the fraction of rain events at the surface that are linked to snow melting at a higher altitude. CloudSat is used to show the global variation of the importance of snow in the precipitation process. In the tropics, subtropics, midlatitude and polar regions 0.3, 0.4, 0.8, and 0.9, respectively, of all precipitation events (1 mm/d) are linked to the production of snow in clouds. 2015 American Geophysical Union. This article is published with the permission of the Controller of HMSO and the Queen's Printer for Scotland.
The ability of six scanning cloud radar scan strategies to reconstruct cumulus cloud fields for radiation study is assessed. Utilizing snapshots of clean and polluted cloud fields from large eddy simulations, an analysis is undertaken of error in both the liquid water path and monochromatic downwelling surface irradiance at 870nm of the reconstructed cloud fields. Error introduced by radar sensitivity, choice of radar scan strategy, retrieval of liquid water content (LWC), and reconstruction scheme is explored. Given an infinitely sensitive radar and perfect LWC retrieval, domain average surface irradiance biases are typically less than 3Wm(-2)mu m(-1), corresponding to 5-10% of the cloud radiative effect (CRE). However, when using a realistic radar sensitivity of -37.5 dBZ at 1km, optically thin areas and edges of clouds are difficult to detect due to their low radar reflectivity; in clean conditions, overestimates are of order 10Wm(-2)mu m(-1) (similar to 20% of the CRE), but in polluted conditions, where the droplets are smaller, this increases to 10-26Wm(-2)mu m(-1) (similar to 40-100% of the CRE). Drizzle drops are also problematic; if treated as cloud droplets, reconstructions are poor, leading to large underestimates of 20-46Wm(-2)mu m(-1) in domain average surface irradiance (similar to 40-80% of the CRE). Nevertheless, a synergistic retrieval approach combining the detailed cloud structure obtained from scanning radar with the droplet-size information and location of cloud base gained from other instruments would potentially make accurate solar radiative transfer calculations in broken cloud possible for the first time.
We present a novel method for retrieving high-resolution, three-dimensional (3-D) nonprecipitating cloud fields in both overcast and broken-cloud situations. The method uses scanning cloud radar and multiwavelength zenith radiances to obtain gridded 3-D liquid water content (LWC) and effective radius (r(e)) and 2-D column mean droplet number concentration (N-d). By using an adaption of the ensemble Kalman filter, radiances are used to constrain the optical properties of the clouds using a forwardmodel that employs full 3-D radiative transfer while also providing full error statistics given the uncertainty in the observations. To evaluate the new method, we first perform retrievals using synthetic measurements from a challenging cumulus cloud field produced by a large-eddy simulation snapshot. Uncertainty due to measurement error in overhead clouds is estimated at 20% in LWC and 6% in r(e), but the true error can be greater due to uncertainties in the assumed droplet size distribution and radiative transfer. Over the entire domain, LWC and r(e) are retrieved with average error 0.05-0.08 gm(-3) and similar to 2 mu m, respectively, depending on the number of radiance channels used. The method is then evaluated using real data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program Mobile Facility at the Azores. Two case studies are considered, one stratocumulus and one cumulus. Where available, the liquid water path retrieved directly above the observation site was found to be in good agreement with independent values obtained from microwave radiometer measurements, with an error of 20 gm(-2).
Active remote sensing of marine boundary-layer clouds is challenging as drizzle drops often dominate the observed radar reflectivity. We present a new method to simultaneously retrieve cloud and drizzle vertical profiles in drizzling boundary-layer clouds using surface-based observations of radar reflectivity, lidar attenuated backscatter, and zenith radiances under conditions when precipitation does not reach the surface. Specifically, the vertical structure of droplet size and water content of both cloud and drizzle is characterised throughout the cloud. An ensemble optimal estimation approach provides full error statistics given the uncertainty in the observations. To evaluate the new method, we first perform retrievals using synthetic measurements from large-eddy simulation snapshots of cumulus under stratocumulus, where cloud water path is retrieved with an error of 31 g m(-2). The method also performs well in non-drizzling clouds where no assumption of the cloud profile is required. We then apply the method to observations of marine stratocumulus obtained during the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement MAGIC deployment in the Northeast Pacific. Here, retrieved cloud water path agrees well with independent three-channel microwave radiometer retrievals, with a root mean square difference of 10-20 g m(-2).
Drought and fire are common disturbances to grassland ecosystems. We report two years of eddy covariance ecosystem-atmosphere fluxes and biometric variables measured in nearby burned and unburned pastures in the US Southern Great Plains. Over the course of the experiment, annual precipitation (similar to 600 mm yr(-1)) was lower than the long term mean (similar to 860 mm yr(-1)). Soil moisture decreased from productive conditions in March 2005 dry, unproductive conditions during the growing season starting in March 2006. Just prior to the burn in early March 2005, burned and unburned pastures contained 520 +/- 60 and 360 +/- 40 g C m(-2) of total above ground biomass (AGB) and litter, respectively. The fire removed approximately 200 g C m(-2) of litter and biomass. In the 2005 growing season following the burn, maximum green AGB was 450 +/- 60 and 270 +/- 40 g C m(-2), with corresponding cumulative annual net ecosystem carbon exchange (NEE) of -330 and -150 g C m(-2) for the burned and unburned pastures, respectively. In contrast to NEE, cumulative mean sensible heat and water fluxes were approximately equal in both pastures during the growing season, suggesting either an increase in water use efficiency or a decrease in evaporation in the burned relative to the unburned pasture. In the 2006 growing season, dry conditions decreased carbon uptake and latent heat, and increased sensible heat fluxes. Peak AGB was reduced to 210 +/- 30 g C m(-2) and 140 +/- 30 g C m(-2) in the burned and unburned pastures, respectively, while NEE was near zero. These results suggest that the lack of precipitation was responsible for most of the interannual variation in carbon exchange for these un-irrigated prairie pastures. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this study the density of ice hydrometeors in tropical clouds is derived from a combined analysis of particle images from 2-D-array probes and associated reflectivities measured with a Doppler cloud radar on the same research aircraft. Usually, the mass-diameter m(D) relationship is formulated as a power law with two unknown coefficients (pre-factor, exponent) that need to be constrained from complementary information on hydrometeors, where absolute ice density measurement methods do not apply. Here, at first an extended theoretical study of numerous hydrometeor shapes simulated in 3-D and arbitrarily projected on a 2-D plan allowed to constrain the exponent beta of the m(D) relationship from the exponent sigma of the surface-diameter S(D) relationship, which is likewise written as a power law. Since S(D) always can be determined for real data from 2-D optical array probes or other particle imagers, the evolution of the m(D) exponent can be calculated. After that, the pre-factor alpha of m(D) is constrained from theoretical simulations of the radar reflectivities matching the measured reflectivities along the aircraft trajectory. The study was performed as part of the Megha-Tropiques satellite project, where two types of mesoscale convective systems (MCS) were investigated: (i) above the African continent and (ii) above the Indian Ocean. For the two data sets, two parameterizations are derived to calculate the vertical variability of m(D) coefficients alpha and beta as a function of the temperature. Originally calculated (with T-matrix) and also subsequently parameterized m(D) relationships from this study are compared to other methods (from literature) of calculating m(D) in tropical convection. The significant benefit of using variable m(D) relations instead of a single m(D) relationship is demonstrated from the impact of all these m(D) relations on Z-CWC (Condensed Water Content) and Z-CWC-T-fitted parameterizations.
Supercooled liquid water (SLW) layers in boundary layer clouds are abundantly observed in the atmosphere at high latitudes, but remain a challenge to represent in numerical weather prediction (NWP) and climate models. Unresolved processes such as small-scale turbulence and mixed-phase microphysics act to maintain the liquid layer at cloud top, directly affecting cloud radiative properties and prolonging cloud lifetimes. This paper describes the representation of supercooled liquid water in boundary layer clouds in the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) global NWP model and in particular the change from a diagnostic temperature-dependent mixed phase to a prognostic representation with separate cloud liquid and ice variables. Data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site in Alaska and from the CloudSat/Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) satellite missions are used to evaluate the model parameterizations. The prognostic scheme shows a more realistic cloud structure, with an SLW layer at cloud top and ice falling out below. However, because of the limited vertical and horizontal resolution and uncertainties in the parameterization of physical processes near cloud top, the change leads to an overall reduction in SLW water with a detrimental impact on shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes, and increased 2-m temperature errors over land. A reduction in the ice deposition rate at cloud top significantly improves the SLW occurrence and radiative impacts, and highlights the need for improved understanding and parameterization of physical processes for mixed-phase cloud in large-scale models.
Soil moisture is vital to the climate system, as root zone soil moisture has a significant influence on evapotranspiration rates and latent and sensible heat exchange. Through the modification of moisture flux from the land surface to the atmosphere, soil moisture can impact regional temperature and precipitation. Despite a wealth of studies examining land-atmosphere interactions, model and observation-driven studies show conflicting results with regard to the sign and strength of soil moisture feedback to precipitation, particularly in the Southern Great Plains of the United States. This research provides observational evidence for a preferential dry (or negative) soil moisture feedback to precipitation in Oklahoma. The ability of soil moisture to impact the location and occurrence of afternoon convective precipitation is constrained by synoptic-scale atmospheric circulation and resulting mid- and low-level wind patterns and sensible and latent heat flux. Overall, the preference for precipitation initiation over dry soils is enhanced when regional soil moisture gradients exhibit a weakened east to west, wet to dry pattern. Based on these results, we conclude that soil moisture can modify atmospheric conditions potentially leading to convective initiation. However, the land surface feedback signal is weak at best, suggesting that regional-scale circulation is the dominant driver of warm season precipitation in the Southern Great Plains. ProQuest Subject Headings: Geography, Atmospheric sciences. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
The relationship between soil moisture (SM) and evaporative fraction (EF) is an important component of land-atmosphere interactions. Frequently, land-atmosphere studies are based on land-surface models and not on observations. This study examines SM-EF interactions over the United States Southern Great Plains using both in situ observations and simulations from the Variable Infiltration Capacity hydrologic model. Specifically, we evaluate how the relationship between SM and EF varies by season, we determine why these variations occur, and we compare model-derived and observed SM-energy flux relationships. Data from four sites (2004-2008) that are part of the United States Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation MeasurementSouthern Great Plains network are used in this study. Results show that SM-EF interactions in both the model and observations are in general agreement with the evaporative regime theory described in past studies. That is, EF is a linear function of SM when SM is between the wilting point and the critical value, and when SM is above the critical value, EF is not dependent on SM. However, SM-EF relationships vary substantially from year to year. EF is a linear function of SM only when daily net radiation is above normal. Our results suggest that the strength of SM-EF interactions is not solely controlled by soil wetness but is also strongly influenced by daily net radiation and meteorological conditions.
The Radiative Heating in Underexplored Bands Campaign (RHUBC) took place in Barrow, Alaska, in February and March 2007. During RHUBC, high resolution far-infrared spectra were measured simultaneously and independently by two different spectrometers - the Imperial College Tropospheric Airborne Fourier Transform Spectrometer (TAFTS) and the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program (ARM) Atmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer - Extended Range (AERI-ER). Co-incidental far-infrared downwelling radiance measurements from the two instruments show good agreement within their overlapping wavenumber measurement range (400-550cm-1). Radiance measurements taken using the TAFTS instrument are compared to the current Mlawer-Tobin-Clough-Kneizys-Davies (MT-CKD) version 2.5 water vapor continuum parameterization for the spectral range 350-500cm-1 (20-29m). Simulated values agree with the TAFTS observations within uncertainties, enhancing confidence that MT-CKD 2.5 accurately represents the foreign-broadened water vapor continuum in this crucial spectral region. 2015 Elsevier Ltd.
Remote sensing of the isotopic composition of water vapor can provide valuable information on the hydrological cycle. Here, we demonstrate the feasibility of retrievals of the relative abundance of HDO (the HDO/H2O ratio) from the Japanese GOSAT satellite. For this purpose, we use high spectral resolution nadir radiances around 6400 cm(-1) (1.56 mu m) to retrieve vertical column amounts of H2O and HDO. Retrievals of H2O correlate well with ECMWF (European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts) integrated profiles (r(2) = 0.96). Typical precision errors in the retrieved column-averaged deuterium depletion (delta D) are 20-40%. We compare delta D against a TCCON (Total Carbon Column Observing Network) ground-based station in Lamont, Oklahoma. Using retrievals in very dry areas over Antarctica, we detect a small systematic offset in retrieved H2O and HDO column amounts and take this into account for a bias correction of delta D. Monthly averages of delta D in the June 2009 to September 2011 time frame are well correlated with TCCON (r2 = 0.79) and exhibit a slope of 0.98 (1.23 if not bias corrected). We also compare seasonal averages on the global scale with results from the SCIAMACHY instrument in the 2003-2005 time frame. Despite the lack of temporal overlap, seasonal averages in general agree well, with spatial correlations (r2) ranging from 0.62 in September through November to 0.83 in June through August. However, we observe higher variability in GOSAT delta D, indicated by fitted slopes between 1.2 and 1.46. The discrepancies are likely related to differences in vertical sensitivities but warrant further validation of both GOSAT and SCIAMACHY and an extension of the validation dataset.
Single column model simulations using the UK Met Office Unified Model, as used in the Australian Community Climate Earth System Simulator, are presented for the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) field study. Two formulations for the representation of clouds are compared with the extensive observations taken during the campaign, giving insight into the ability of the model to simulate tropical cloud systems. During the active monsoon phase the modelled cloud cover has a stronger dependence on relative humidity than the observations. Observed ice cloud properties during the suppressed monsoon period show that the ice water content is significantly underestimated in the simulations. The profiles of modelled ice fall speeds are faster than those observed in the levels above 12 km, implying that the observations have smaller sized particles in larger concentrations than the models. Both simulations show similar errors in the diurnal cycle of relative humidity during the active monsoon phase, suggesting that the error is less sensitive to the choice of cloud scheme and rather is driven by the convection scheme. However, during the times of suppressed convection the relative humidity error is different between the simulations, with congestus convection drying the environment too much, particularly in the prognostic cloud-scheme simulation. This result shows that the choice of cloud scheme and the way that the cloud and convection schemes interact plays a role in the temperature and moisture errors during the suppressed monsoon phase, which will impact the three-dimensional model simulations of tropical variability. Copyright 2011 Royal Meteorological Society.
Measurements of cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) concentrations, single particle composition and size distributions at a high-elevation research site from March 2011 are presented. The temporal evolution of detailed single particle composition is compared with changes in CCN activation on four days, two of which include new particle formation and growth events. Sulfate-containing particles dominated the single particle composition by number; biomass burning particles, sea salt particles, and particles containing organic components were also present. CCN activation largely followed the behavior of the sulfate-containing particle types; biomass burning particle types also likely contained hygroscopic material that impacted CCN activation. Newly formed particles also may contribute to CCN activation at higher supersaturation conditions. Derived aerosol hygroscopicity parameters from the size distribution and CCN concentration measurements are within the range of previous reports of remote continental kappa values.
The Fourier-transform spectrometer on board the Japanese GOSAT (Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite) satellite offers an excellent opportunity to study the impact of instrument resolution on retrieval accuracy of CO2 and CH4. This is relevant to further improve retrieval accuracy and to optimize the cost-benefit ratio of future satellite missions for the remote sensing of greenhouse gases. To address this question, we degrade GOSAT measurements with a spectral resolution of approximate to 0.24 cm(-1) step by step to a resolution of 1.5 cm(-1). We examine the results by comparing relative differences at various resolutions, by referring the results to reference values from the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON), and by calculating and inverting synthetic spectra for which the true CO2 and CH4 columns are known. The main impacts of degrading the spectral resolution are reproduced for all approaches based on GOSAT measurements; pure forward model errors identified with simulated measurements are much smaller. For GOSAT spectra, the most notable effect on CO2 retrieval accuracy is the increase of the standard deviation of retrieval errors from 0.7 to 1.0% when the spectral resolution is reduced by a factor of six. The retrieval biases against atmospheric water abundance and air mass become stronger with decreasing resolution. The error scatter increase for CH4 columns is less pronounced. The selective degradation of single spectral windows demonstrates that the retrieval accuracy of CO2 and CH4 is dominated by the spectral range where the absorption lines of the target molecule are located. For both GOSAT and synthetic measurements, retrieval accuracy decreases with lower spectral resolution for a given signal-to-noise ratio, suggesting increasing interference errors.
Long-term data sets of all-sky and clear-sky downwelling shortwave (SW) radiation, cloud cover fraction, and aerosol optical depth (AOD) were analyzed together with surface concentrations from several networks (e. g., Surface Radiation Budget Network (SURFRAD), Clean Air Status and Trend Network (CASTNET), Interagency Monitoring of Protection Visual Environments (IMPROVE) and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM)) in the United States (US). Seven states with varying climatology were selected to better understand the effects of aerosols and clouds on SW radiation. This analysis aims to assess the effects of reductions in anthropogenic aerosol burden resulting from substantial reductions in emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) over the past 16 yr across the US, based on trends in SW radiation. The SO2 and NOx emission data show decreasing trends from 1995 to 2010, which indirectly validates the effects of the Clean Air Act (CAA) in the US. Meanwhile, the total column AOD and surface total PM2.5 observations also show decreasing trends in the eastern US but slightly increasing trends in the western US. Moreover, measured surface concentrations of several other pollutants (i.e., SO2, SO4 and NOx) have similar behavior to AOD and total PM2.5. Analysis of the observed data shows strong increasing trends in all-sky downwelling SW radiation with decreasing trends in cloud cover. However, since observations of both all-sky direct and diffuse SW radiation show increasing trends, there may be other factors contributing to the radiation trends in addition to the decreasing trends in overall cloud cover. To investigate the role of direct radiative effects of aerosols, clear-sky downwelling radiation is analyzed so that cloud effects are eliminated. However, similar increasing trends in clear-sky total and diffuse SW radiation are observed. While significantly decreasing trends in AOD and surface PM2.5 concentrations along with increasing SW radiation (both all-sky and clear-sky) in the eastern US during 1995-2010 imply the occurrence of direct aerosol mediated "brightening", the increasing trends of both all-sky and clear-sky diffuse SW radiation contradicts this conclusion since diffuse radiation would be expected to decrease as aerosols direct effects decrease and cloud cover decreases. After investigating several confounding factors, the increasing trend in clear-sky diffuse SW may be due to more high-level cirrus from increasing air traffic over the US. The clear-sky radiation observations in the western US also show indications of "brightening" even though the AOD, PM2.5 and surface concentration do not vary drastically. This outcome was not unexpected because the CAA controls were mainly aimed at reducing air pollutant emissions in the eastern US and air pollutant levels in the western US were much lower at the onset. This suggests other factors affect the "brightening" especially in the western US.
This paper describes a method for using interferometer measurements of downwelling thermal radiation to retrieve the properties of single-layer clouds. Cloud phase is determined from ratios of thermal emission in three "micro-windows" at 862.5 cm(-1), 935.8 cm(-1), and 988.4cm(-1) where absorption by water vapour is particularly small. Cloud microphysical and optical properties are retrieved from thermal emission in the first two of these micro-windows, constrained by the transmission through clouds of primarily stratospheric ozone emission at 1040 cm(-1). Assuming a cloud does not approximate a blackbody, the estimated 95 % confidence retrieval errors in effective radius r(e), visible optical depth tau, number concentration N, and water path WP are, respectively, 10%, 20%, 38 % (55 % for ice crystals), and 16%. Applied to data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement programme (ARM) North Slope of Alaska Adjacent Arctic Ocean (NSA-AAO) site near Barrow, Alaska, retrievals show general agreement with both ground-based microwave radiometer measurements of liquid water path and a method that uses combined shortwave and microwave measurements to retrieve r(e), tau and N. Compared to other retrieval methods, advantages of this technique include its ability to characterise thin clouds year round, that water vapour is not a primary source of retrieval error, and that the retrievals of microphysical properties are only weakly sensitive to retrieved cloud phase. The primary limitation is the inapplicability to thicker clouds that radiate as blackbodies and that it relies on a fairly comprehensive suite of ground based measurements.
The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Data Integrator (ADI) is a framework designed to streamline the development of scientific algorithms that analyze, and models that use time-series NetCDF data. ADI automates the process of retrieving and preparing data for analysis, provides a modular, flexible framework that simplifies software development, and supports a data integration workflow. Algorithm and model input data, preprocessing, and output data specifications are defined through a graphical interface. ADI includes a library of software modules to support the workflow, and a source code generator that produces C, IDL, and Python templates to jump start development. While developed for processing climate data, ADI can be applied to any time-series data. This paper discusses the ADI framework, and how ADI's capabilities can decrease the time and cost of implementing scientific algorithms allowing modelers and scientists to focus their efforts on their research rather than preparing and packaging data. 2014 Elsevier Ltd.
The probabilistic bulk convection model (PBCM) developed in a companion paper is here extended to shallow nonprecipitating convection. The PBCM unifies the clear-sky and shallow convection boundary layer regimes by obtaining mixed-layer growth, cloud fraction, and convective inhibition from a single parameterization based on physical principles. The evolution of the shallow convection PBCM is based on the statistical distribution of the surface thermodynamic state of convective plumes. The entrainment velocity of the mixed layer is related to the mass flux of the updrafts overshooting the dry inversion capping the mixed layer. The updrafts overcoming the convective inhibition generate active cloud-base mass flux, which is the boundary condition for the shallow cumulus scheme. The subcloud-layer entrainment velocity is directly coupled to the cloud-base mass flux through the distribution of vertical velocity and fractional cover of the updrafts. Comparisons of the PBCM against large-eddy simulations from the Barbados Oceanographic and Meteorological Experiment (BOMEX) and from the Southern Great Plains Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) facility demonstrate good agreement in terms of thermodynamic structure, cloud-base mass flux, and cloud top. The equilibrium between the cloud-base mass flux and rate of growth of the mixed layer determines the equilibrium convective inhibition and cloud cover. This process is an important new insight on the coupling between the mixed-layer and cumulus dynamics. Given its relative simplicity and transparency, the PBCM represents a powerful tool for developing process-based understanding and intuition about the physical processes involved in boundary layer-convection interactions, as well as a test bed for diagnosing and validating shallow convection parameterizations.
The potential use of continental fair-weather shallow cumuli as a way to retrieve the daily surface evaporative fraction over land is evaluated in convective conditions. The proposed method utilizes the fact that both the timing of cloud occurrence and the cloud-base height at the time of occurrence provide strong constraints on the surface energy balance and evaporative fraction. The retrieval is especially reliable in the presence of relatively stable and humid-free troposphere profiles. The advantage of the method is that it provides a more direct estimate of the surface evaporative fraction than indirect estimation based on inversion of a highly parameterized land-surface model. In addition, the evaporative fraction is obtained at a scale of a few kilometers, which is more pertinent for weather and climate studies. The retrieval strategy is tested and validated for three contrasting climates: the U.S. southern Great Plains, West Africa, and the Netherlands. We suggest that the use of satellite observations of shallow cumuli can help constrain the retrieval of the surface evaporative fraction within a data assimilation scheme/reanalysis.
A trend analysis was applied to a 14-yr time series of downwelling spectral infrared radiance observations from the Atmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer (AERI) located at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) site in the U.S. Southern Great Plains. The highly accurate calibration of the AERI instrument, performed every 10 min, ensures that any statistically significant trend in the observed data over this time can be attributed to changes in the atmospheric properties and composition, and not to changes in th sensitivity or responsivity of the instrument. The measured infrared spectra, numbering more than 800 000, were classified as clear-sky, thin cloud, and thick cloud scenes using a neural network method. The AERI data record demonstrates that the downwelling infrared radiance is decreasing over this 14-yr period in the winter, summer, and autumn seasons but it is increasing in the spring; these trends are statistically significant and are primarily due to long-term change in the cloudiness above the site. The AERI data also show many statistically significant trends on annual, seasonal, and diurnal time scales, with different trend signatures identified in the separate scene classifications. Given the decadal time span of the dataset, effects from natural variability should be considered in drawing broader conclusions. Nevertheless, this dataset has high value owing to the ability to infer possible mechanisms for any trends from the observations themselves and to test the performance of climate models.
Observations made during a 24-h period as part of the Variability of the American Monsoon Systems (VAMOS) Ocean-Cloud-Atmosphere-Land Study Regional Experiment (VOCALS-REx) are analyzed to study the radiation and turbulence associated with the stratocumulus-topped marine boundary layer (BL). The first 14 h exhibited a well-mixed (coupled) BL with an average cloud-top radiative flux divergence of ~130 Wm-2; the BL was decoupled during the last 10h with negligible radiative flux divergence. The averaged radiative cooling very close to the cloud top was -9.04 K h-1 in coupled conditions and -3.85 K h-1 in decoupled conditions. This is the first study that combined data from a vertically pointing Doppler cloud radar and a Doppler lidar to yield the vertical velocity structure of the entire BL. The averaged vertical velocity variance and updraft mass flux during coupled conditions were higher than those during decoupled conditions at all levels by a factor of 2 or more. The vertical velocity skewness was negative in the entire BL during coupled conditions, whereas it was weakly positive in the lower third of the BL and negative above during decoupled conditions. A formulation of velocity scale is proposed that includes the effect of cloud-top radiative cooling in addition to the surface buoyancy flux. When scaled by the velocity scale, the vertical velocity variance and coherent downdrafts had similar magnitude during the coupled and decoupled conditions. The coherent updrafts that exhibited a constant profile in the entire BL during both the coupled and decoupled conditions scaled well with the convective velocity scale to a value of ~0.5.
Stratocumulus-topped boundary layers (STBLs) observed in three different regions are described in the context of their thermodynamic and radiative properties. The primary dataset consists of 131 soundings from the southeastern Pacific (SEP), 90 soundings from the island of Graciosa (GRW) in the North Atlantic, and 83 soundings from the U.S. Southern Great Plains (SGP). A new technique that makes an attempt to preserve the depths of the sublayers within an STBL is proposed for averaging the profiles of thermodynamic and radiative variables. A one-dimensional radiative transfer model known as the Rapid Radiative Transfer Model was used to compute the radiative fluxes within the STBL. The SEP STBLs were characterized by a stronger and deeper inversion, together with thicker clouds, lower free-tropospheric moisture, and higher radiative flux divergence across the cloud layer, as compared to the GRW STBLs. Compared to the STBLs over the marine locations, the STBLs over SGP had higher wind shear and a negligible (-0.41 g kg-1) jump in mixing ratio across the inversion. Despite the differences in many of the STBL thermodynamic parameters, the differences in liquid water path at the three locations were statistically insignificant. The soundings were further classified as well mixed or decoupled based on the difference between the surface and cloud-base virtual potential temperature. The decoupled STBLs were deeper than the well-mixed STBLs at all three locations. Statistically insignificant differences in surface latent heat flux (LHF) between well-mixed and decoupled STBLs suggest that parameters other than LHF are responsible for producing decoupling.
Oceanic trade wind cumulus clouds not only impact the Earth's radiation budget but also affect the boundary layer (BL) structure. Data from the deployment of Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM)'s Mobile Facility at the island of Graciosa in the Azores is used to study the vertical velocity structure of these clouds. The surface fluxes as reported by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasting (ECMWF) analysis model were used to characterize the dynamic structure of the BL. Cloud radar data from nine cases totaling to 114 hours and containing 557 cumulus cloud elements are analyzed to report hourly values of mean reflectivity, mean vertical velocity, cloud fraction, and cloud mass flux. The hourly averaged in-cloud vertical velocity was constant (~0.35 m s-1) with height, while the average velocity of updrafts and vertically coherent updrafts increased from cloud base to cloud top. The reflectivity did not exhibit any significant changes between all, updraft and coherent updraft samples. The cloud fraction and mass flux showed similar vertical profiles with both having a peak near cloud base. The mass flux contribution of vertically coherent updrafts spanning through the entire cloud layer to the average updraft mass flux was ~62%. The hourly values were classified based on the surface convective velocity scale (w*) as reported by the ECMWF model. The cloud fraction near cloud base during hours with w* less than 0.2 m s-1 was ~6% while that during hours with w* greater than 0.6 m s-1 was ~9%. The cloud base mass flux during hours with w* greater than 0.6 m s-1 was almost double that during hours with w* less than 0.2 m-1.
Marine nonprecipitating cumulus topped boundary layers (CTBLs) observed in a tropical and in a trade wind region are contrasted based on their cloud macrophysical, dynamical, and radiative structures. Data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) observational site previously operating at Manus Island, Papua New Guinea, and data collected during the deployment of ARM Mobile Facility at the island of Graciosa, in the Azores, were used in this study. The tropical marine CTBLs were deeper, had higher surface fluxes and boundary layer radiative cooling, but lower wind speeds compared to their trade wind counterparts. The radiative velocity scale was 50%-70% of the surface convective velocity scale at both locations, highlighting the prominent role played by radiation in maintaining turbulence in marine CTBLs. Despite greater thicknesses, the chord lengths of tropical cumuli were on average lower than those of trade wind cumuli, and as a result of lower cloud cover, the hourly averaged (cloudy and clear) liquid water paths of tropical cumuli were lower than the trade wind cumuli. At both locations similar to 70% of the cloudy profiles were updrafts, while the average amount of updrafts near cloud base stronger than 1 m s(-1) was similar to 22% in tropical cumuli and similar to 12% in the trade wind cumuli. The mean in-cloud radar reflectivity within updrafts and mean updraft velocity was higher in tropical cumuli than the trade wind cumuli. Despite stronger vertical velocities and a higher number of strong updrafts, due to lower cloud fraction, the updraft mass flux was lower in the tropical cumuli compared to the trade wind cumuli. The observations suggest that the tropical and trade wind marine cumulus clouds differ significantly in their macrophysical and dynamical structures.
The variability of rainfall and drop size distributions (DSDs) as a function of large-scale atmospheric conditions and storm characteristics is investigated using measurements from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) facility at Darwin, Australia. Observations are obtained from an impact disdrometer with a near continuous record of operation over five consecutive wet seasons (2006-11). Bulk rainfall characteristics are partitioned according to diurnal accumulation, convective and stratiform precipitation classifications, objective monsoonal regime, and MJO phase. Findings support previous Darwin studies suggesting a significant diurnal and DSD parameter signal associated with both convective-stratiform and wet season monsoonal regime classification. Negligible MJO phase influence is determined for cumulative disdrometric statistics over the Darwin location.
This study presents a summary of the properties of deep convective updraft and downdraft cores over the central plains of the United States, accomplished using a novel and now-standard Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) scanning mode for a commercial wind-profiler system. A unique profiler-based hydrometeor fall-speed correction method modeled for the convective environment was adopted. Accuracy of the velocity retrievals from this effort is expected to be within 2 m s(-1), with minimal bias and base core resolution expected near 1 km. Updraft cores are found to behave with height in reasonable agreement with aircraft observations of previous continental convection, including those of the Thunderstorm Project. Intense updraft cores with magnitudes exceeding 15 m s(-1) are routinely observed. Downdraft cores are less frequently observed, with weaker magnitudes than updrafts. Weak, positive correlations are found between updraft intensity (maximum) and updraft diameter length (coefficient r to 0.5 aloft). Negligible correlations are observed for downdraft core lengths and intensity.
This study presents radar-based precipitation estimates collected during the 2-month U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM)-NASAMidlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E). Emphasis is on the usefulness of radar observations from the C-band and X-band scanningARMprecipitation radars (CSAPRandXSAPR, respectively) for rainfall estimation products to distances within 100km of the Lamont, Oklahoma, ARM facility. The study utilizes a dense collection of collocated ARM, NASA Global Precipitation Measurement, and nearby surface Oklahoma Mesonet gauge records to evaluate radar-based hourly rainfall products and campaign-optimized methods over individual gauges and for areal rainfall characterizations. Rainfall products are also evaluated against the performance of a regional NWS Weather Surveillance Radar-1988 Doppler (WSR-88D) S-band dual-polarization radar product. Results indicate that the CSAPR system may achieve similar point- and areal-gauge bias and rootmean-square (RMS) error performance to a WSR-88D reference for the variety of MC3E deep convective events sampled. The best campaign rainfall performance was achieved when using radar relations capitalizing on estimates of the specific attenuation from the CSAPR system. The XSAPRs demonstrate limited capabilities, having modest success in comparison with the WSR-88D reference for hourly rainfall accumulations that are under 10mm. All rainfall estimation methods exhibit a reduction by a factor of 1.5-2.5 in RMS errors for areal accumulations over a 15-km2 NASA dense gauge network, with the smallest errors typically associated with dual-polarization radar methods.
Extended, high-resolution measurements of vertical air motion and median volume drop diameter DO in widespread precipitation from three diverse Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) locations [Lamont, Oklahoma, Southern Great Plains site (SGP); Niamey, Niger; and Black Forest, Germany] are presented. The analysis indicates a weak (0-10 cm-1) downward air motion beneath the melting layer for all three regions, a magnitude that is to within the typical uncertainty of the retrieval methods. On average, the hourly estimated standard deviation of the vertical air motion is 0.25 m s-1 with no pronounced vertical structure. Profiles of D0 vary according to region and rainfall rate. The standard deviation of 1-min-averaged D0 profiles for isolated rainfall rate intervals is 0.3-0.4 mm. Additional insights into the form of the raindrop size distribution are provided using available dual-frequency Doppler velocity observations at SGP. The analysis suggests that gamma functions better explain paired velocity observations and radar retrievals for the Oklahoma dataset. This study will be useful in assessing uncertainties introduced in the measurement of precipitation parameters from ground-based and spaceborne remote sensors that are due to small-scale variability.
Some 36 years following its creation, the Deardorff 1980 (D80) subgrid turbulence model is perhaps still the most ubiquitous scheme used in large-eddy simulation (LES) studies of atmospheric boundary-layer flows. This model is often included as the default closure scheme in a variety of codes and numerical weather prediction models. In this study, we investigate the three commonly employed corrective adjustments of the D80 closure model. These include a stability-dependent length-scale, the formulation for the subgrid turbulent Prandtl number, and the enhancement of near-surface dissipation. We implement a modified formulation of the D80 closure, then compare simulated flow statistics in the lower portion of a representative nocturnal stable boundary layer (SBL) case from LES with realistic forcing using the original D80 scheme and the modified version of the scheme. LES data were compared with observations from the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site of the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program in Lamont, Oklahoma. The modified scheme shows overall improvement in reproducing vertical profiles of wind speed and potential temperature in the near-surface region of the SBL. Conclusions regarding turbulence kinetic energy and friction velocity are not as definitive, although there are signs of improved agreement with measurement data. Examination of the stability parameter and near-surface sensible heat flux suggests the modified scheme better captures effects of stability in the considered flow case. The proposed modification offers a more straightforward and interpretable framework for the parametrization of subgrid turbulence in LES of atmospheric boundary layers. 2016 Royal Meteorological Society.
Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model predictions using different boundary layer schemes and horizontal grid spacings were compared with observational and numerical large-eddy simulation data for conditions corresponding to a dry atmospheric convective boundary layer (CBL) over the southern Great Plains (SGP). The first studied case exhibited a dryline passage during the simulation window, and the second studied case was used to examine the CBL in a post-cold-frontal environment. The model runs were conducted with three boundary layer parameterization schemes (Yonsei University, Mellor-Yamada-Janjic, and asymmetrical convective) commonly employed within the WRF model environment to represent effects of small-scale turbulent transport. A study domain was centered over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program SGP site in Lamont, Oklahoma. Results show that near-surface flow and turbulence parameters are predicted reasonably well with all tested horizontal grid spacings (1,2, and 4 km) and that value added through refining grid spacing was minimal at best for conditions considered in this study. In accord with this result, it was suggested that the 16-fold increase in computing overhead associated with changing from 4to 1-km grid spacing was not justified. Therefore, only differences among schemes at 4-km spacing were presented in detail. WRF model predictions generally overestimated the contribution to turbulence generation by mechanical forcing over buoyancy forcing in both studied CBL cases. Nonlocal parameterization schemes were found to match observational data more closely than did the local scheme, although differences among the predictions with all three schemes were relatively small.
The seasonality and mutual dependence of aerosol optical properties and cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) activity under varying meteorological conditions at the high-altitude Nainital site (2km) in the Indo-Gangetic Plains were examined using nearly year-round measurements (June 2011 to March 2012) at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement mobile facility as part of the Regional Aerosol Warming Experiment-Ganges Valley Aerosol Experiment of the Indian Space Research Organization and the U.S. Department of Energy. The results from collocated measurements provided enhanced aerosol scattering and absorption coefficients, CCN concentrations, and total condensation nuclei concentrations during the dry autumn and winter months. The CCN concentration (at a supersaturation of 0.46) was higher during the periods of high aerosol absorption (single scattering albedo (SSA)<0.80) than during the periods of high aerosol scattering (SSA>0.85), indicating that the aerosol composition seasonally changes and influences the CCN activity. The monthly mean CCN activation ratio (at a supersaturation of 0.46) was highest (>0.7) in late autumn (November); this finding is attributed to the contribution of biomass-burning aerosols to CCN formation at high supersaturation conditions.
We document and characterize the climatology of the diurnal cycles encountered along a West African transect during the pre-monsoon and full-monsoon periods. The meridional gradient in low-level properties is fundamental for the monsoon dynamics and here, for the first time, it is studied based on a large set of observations from the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) campaign. A detailed analysis of surface energy budget, boundary-layer structures and cloud occurrence is carried out to investigate the diurnal cycles of the low levels. A relatively weak meridional gradient of net radiation is observed during the pre-monsoon period, and a large gradient in sensible heat flux is found over the transect with values increasing from south to north. This, as well as the boundary-layer structures, partly explains the large contrasts in the diurnal amplitude of potential temperature and specific humidity along the transect. During the monsoon period, the atmospheric regimes drastically change involving strong interactions between the surface, atmosphere and clouds. The maximum in net radiation is shifted northwards, towards the Sahel, which potentially has a significant impact on the monsoon circulation. The sensible heat flux is considerably reduced and the diurnal amplitude is strongly damped, while the daytime boundary-layer growth decreases significantly in the Sahel related to changes in the balance of boundary-layer processes. These results highlight the contrasted diurnal cycle regimes encountered over West Africa under dry, moist and wet conditions. They provide observationally-based diagnostics to investigate the ability of models to handle the representation of the diurnal cycle over land.
Inadequate treatment of aerosol scattering can be a significant source of error when retrieving column-averaged dry-air mole fractions of CO2 (XCO2) from space-based measurements of backscattered solar shortwave radiation. We have developed a retrieval algorithm, RemoTeC, that retrieves three aerosol parameters (amount, size, and height) simultaneously with XCO2. Here we evaluate the ability of RemoTeC to account for light path modifications by clouds, subvisual cirrus, and aerosols when retrieving XCO2 from Greenhouse Gases Observing Satellite (GOSAT) Thermal and Near-infrared Sensor for carbon Observation (TANSO)-Fourier Transform Spectrometer (FTS) measurements. We first evaluate a cloud filter based on measurements from the Cloud and Aerosol Imager and a cirrus filter that uses radiances measured by TANSO-FTS in the 2micron spectral region, with strong water absorption. For the cloud-screened scenes, we then evaluate errors due to aerosols. We find that RemoTeC is well capable of accounting for scattering by aerosols for values of aerosol optical thickness at 750nm up to 0.25. While no significant correlation of errors is found with albedo, correlations are found with retrieved aerosol parameters. To further improve the XCO2 accuracy, we propose and evaluate a bias correction scheme. Measurements from 12 ground-based stations of the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON) are used as a reference in this study. We show that spatial colocation criteria may be relaxed using additional constraints based on modeled XCO2 gradients, to increase the size and diversity of validation data and provide a more robust evaluation of GOSAT retrievals. Global-scale validation of satellite data remains challenging and would be improved by increasing TCCON coverage.
The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program is a U.S. Department of Energy project that collects meteorological observations at several locations around the world in order to study how weather processes affect global climate change. As one of its initiatives, it operates a set of fixed but irregularly-spaced monitoring facilities in the Southern Great Plains region of the U. S. We describe methods for interpolating temperature records from these fixed facilities to locations at which no observations were made, which can be useful when values are required on a spatial grid. We interpolate by conditionally simulating from a fitted nonstationary Gaussian process model that accounts for the time-varying statistical characteristics of the temperatures, as well as the dependence on solar radiation. The model is fit by maximizing an approximate likelihood, and the conditional simulations result in well-calibrated confidence intervals for the predicted temperatures. We also describe methods for handling spatial-temporal jumps in the data to interpolate a slow-moving cold front.
Two mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) observed during the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analyses (AMMA) experiment are simulated using the three-dimensional (3D) Goddard Cumulus Ensemble model. This study was undertaken to determine the performance of the cloud-resolving model in representing distinct convective and microphysical differences between the two MCSs over a tropical continental location. Simulations are performed using 1-km horizontal grid spacing, a lower limit on current embedded cloud-resolving models within a global multiscale modeling framework. Simulated system convective structure and microphysics are compared to radar observations using contoured frequency-by-altitude diagrams (CFADs), calculated ice and water mass, and identified hydrometeor variables. Vertical distributions of ice hydrometeors indicate underestimation at the mid- and upper levels, partially due to the inability of the model to produce adequate system heights. The abundance of high-reflectivity values below and near the melting level in the simulation led to a broadening of the CFAD distributions. Observed vertical reflectivity profiles show that high reflectivity is present at greater heights than the simulations produced, thought to be a result of using a single-moment microphysics scheme. Relative trends in the population of simulated hydrometeors are in agreement with observations, though a secondary convective burst is not well represented. Despite these biases, the radar-observed differences between the two cases are noticeable in the simulations as well, suggesting that the model has some skill in capturing observed differences between the two MCSs.
Two mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) observed during the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analyses(AMMA) experiment are simulated using the three-dimensional (3D) Goddard Cumulus Ensemble model. This study was undertaken to determine the performance of the cloud-resolving model in representing distinct convective and microphysical differences between the two MCSs over a tropical continental location. Simulations are performed using 1-km horizontal grid spacing, a lower limit on current embedded cloud-resolving models within a global multiscale modeling framework. Simulated system convective structure and microphysics are compared to radar observations using contoured frequency-by-altitude diagrams (CFADs), calculated ice and water mass, and identified hydrometeor variables. Vertical distributions of ice hydrometeors indicate underestimation at the mid- and upper levels, partially due to the inability of the model to produce adequate system heights. The abundance of high-reflectivity values below and near the melting level in the simulation led to a broadening of the CFAD distributions. Observed vertical reflectivity profiles show that high reflectivity is present at greater heights than the simulations produced, thought to be a result of using a single-moment microphysics scheme. Relative trends in the population of simulated hydrometeors are in agreement with observations, though a secondary convective burst is not well represented. Despite these biases, the radar-observed differences between the two cases are noticeable in the simulations as well, suggesting that the model has some skill in capturing observed differences between the two MCSs.
Experiments with the single-column implementation of the Weather Research and Forecasting Model provide a basis for deducing land-atmosphere coupling errors in the model. Coupling occurs both through heat and moisture fluxes through the land-atmosphere interface and roughness sublayer, and turbulent heat, moisture, and momentum fluxes through the atmospheric surface layer. This work primarily addresses the turbulent fluxes, which are parameterized following the Monin-Obukhov similarity theory applied to the atmospheric surface layer. By combining ensemble data assimilation and parameter estimation, the model error can be characterized. Ensemble data assimilation of 2-m temperature and water vapor mixing ratio, and 10-m wind components, forces the model to follow observations during a month-long simulation for a column over the well-instrumented Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Central Facility near Lamont, Oklahoma. One-hour errors in predicted observations are systematically small but nonzero, and the systematic errors measure bias as a function of local time of day. Analysis increments for state elements nearby (15 m AGL) can be too small or have the wrong sign, indicating systematically biased covariances and model error. Experiments using the ensemble filter to objectively estimate a parameter controlling the thermal land-atmosphere coupling show that the parameter adapts to offset the model errors, but that the errors cannot be eliminated. Results suggest either structural errors or further parametric errors that may be difficult to estimate. Experiments omitting atypical observations such as soil and flux measurements lead to qualitatively similar deductions, showing the potential for assimilating common in situ observations as an inexpensive framework for deducing and isolating model errors.
Regional convection-permitting model simulations of cloud populations observed during the 2011 Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Madden-Julian Oscillation Investigation Experiment/Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation Experiment (AMIE/DYNAMO) field campaign are evaluated against ground-based radar and ship-based observations. Sensitivity of model simulated reflectivity, surface rain rate, and cold pool statistics to variations of raindrop breakup/self-collection parameters in four state-of-the-art two-moment bulk microphysics schemes in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model is examined. The model simulations generally overestimate reflectivity from large and deep convective cells, and underestimate stratiform rain and the frequency of cold pools. In the sensitivity experiments, introduction of more aggressive raindrop breakup or decreasing the self-collection efficiency increases the cold pool occurrence frequency in all of the simulations, and slightly reduces the reflectivity and precipitation statistics bias in some schemes but has little effect on the overall mean surface precipitation. Both the radar observations and model simulations of cloud populations show an approximate power law relationship between convective echo-top height and equivalent convective cell radius.
Two Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) episodes observed during the 2011 Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program MJO Investigation Experiment (AMIE)/DYNAMO field campaign are simulated using a regional model with various cumulus parameterizations, a regional cloud-permitting model, and a global variable-resolution model with a high-resolution region centered over the tropical Indian Ocean. Model biases in relationships relevant to existing instability theories of MJO are examined and their relative contributions to the overall model errors are quantified using a linear statistical model. The model simulations capture the observed approximately log-linear relationship between moisture saturation fraction and precipitation, but precipitation associated with the given saturation fraction is overestimated especially at low saturation fraction values. This bias is a major contributor to the excessive precipitation during the suppressed phase of MJO. After accounting for this bias using a linear statistical model, the spatial and temporal structures of the model-simulated MJO episodes are much improved, and what remains of the biases is strongly correlated with biases in saturation fraction. The excess precipitation bias during the suppressed phase of the MJO episodes is accompanied by excessive column-integrated radiative forcing and surface evaporation. A large portion of the bias in evaporation is related to biases in wind speed, which are correlated with those of precipitation. These findings suggest that the precipitation bias sustains itself at least partly by cloud radiative feedbacks and convection-surface wind interactions.
We explore the potential aerosol impact on cloud optical properties which is a strong modifier of climate forcing. Previous studies have shown that increased aerosol loading can affect the cloud optical properties such as cloud optical depth and cloud droplet effective radius in rural areas, particularly at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement, Southern Great Plain site. In this study, we attempt to observe and quantify aerosol-cloud interaction over New York City, using a combination of passive and active radiometric sensors. In particular, we look for signatures of the Twomey indirect effect which states that the droplet size of water phase clouds will decrease with increasing aerosols. We find that under certain conditions, a strong signature is found between the cloud drop effective radius and extinction and this effect is in part due to vertical wind uptake. In demonstrating the Aerosol Cloud Interaction, we use multiple approaches. For example, we derive the integrated liquid water path using both a multiband neural network and dual channel approach and show general agreement between two methods while the DC approach seems more robust. We also find that these measurements are difficult and sensitive to the position of the aerosols relative to the cloud base. As a corollary, we explore whether near surface aerosol loading can effecting the cloud by using particulate matter (PM2.5) and find that the effects are too variable to be given any statistical weight. Finally, we explore the potential of modifying our approach to remove the noisy and difficult measurement of Raman LIDAR derived extinction with calibrated LIDAR backscatter. The results seem to show a general improvement in correlation and offer the possibility of increasing the number of cases observed. ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric sciences, Remote sensing. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
High-frequency gravity waves are analyzed using radiosonde soundings taken during the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE). The intrinsic periods of these waves are estimated to be between 10 and 50 min. The high-frequency wave activity in the stratosphere, defined by mass-weighted variance of the vertical motion of the sonde, has a maximum following the afternoon local convection indicating that these waves are generated by local convection. The wave activity is the strongest in the lower stratosphere below 22 km and, during the suppressed monsoon period, is modulated with a 3-4 day period. The concentration of the wave activity in the lower stratosphere is consistent with the properties of the environment in which these waves propagate, whereas its 3-4 day modulation is explained by the variation of the convection activity in the TWP-ICE domain. For shallow convection, the wave activity has a weak tendency to increase as the rainfall intensity increases. The wave activity associated with deep convection, which typically occurs at high rainfall intensities, is larger and has more spread than that associated with shallow convection.
Gravity waves are analyzed in radiosonde soundings taken during the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) campaign. The properties of the inertia-gravity waves are analyzed in Part I, whereas Part II focuses on high-frequency gravity waves. Two groups of inertia-gravity waves are detected: group L (Long vertical wavelength) in the middle stratosphere during the suppressed monsoon period and group S (Short vertical wavelength) in the lower stratosphere during the monsoon break period. Waves belonging to group L propagate to the southeast with a mean intrinsic period of 35 h and have vertical and horizontal wavelengths of about 5-6 km and 3000-6000 km, respectively. Ray-tracing calculations indicate that these waves originate from a deep convective region near Indonesia. Waves belonging to group S propagate to the south-southeast with an intrinsic period, vertical wavelength, and horizontal wavelength of about 45 h, 2 km, and 2000-4000 km, respectively. These waves appear to originate from convection in the vicinity of New Guinea.
Field campaigns in atmospheric science typically require making challenging decisions about how best to deploy limited resources, especially aircraft flight hours. Algorithmic decision tools have shown the potential to outperform traditional heuristic approaches to allocating limited flight hours in field campaigns. The present study examines the utility of algorithmic decision tools in an application to the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Small Particles in Cirrus (SPartICus) campaign, which sampled cirrus clouds over the ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site between January and June 2010. Probabilistic forecasts of suitable data collection conditions were generated using relative humidity forecasts from the Global Forecast System (GFS) and self-organizing maps. An optimization procedure based on dynamic programming was then used to generate day-ahead fly/no-fly decisions for research flights over the SGP site. The quality of flight decisions thus generated were compared with those made by the SPartICus science team. Results showed that the algorithmic decision tool would have delivered 11% more optimal data while shortening the length of the campaign season by 29days and reducing the per-day expenditure of investigator time on activities of forecasting and decision-making.
Bulk microphysical schemes use the capacitance model for ice vapor growth in combination with mass size relationships to determine the evolution of ice water content (IWC) and ice particle maximum dimension in time. These approaches are limited since a single axis length is used, the aspect ratio is usually held constant and mass size relations have many available coefficients for similar ice types. Fixing the crystal aspect ratio severs the nonlinear link between aspect ratio changes and increased growth rates that occur during crystal growth. A method is presented here for predicting two crystal axes and the crystal aspect ratio in bulk models. Evolution of the ice mass mixing ratio is tied to the evolution of two axis length mixing ratios through the use of a historical axis ratio parameter containing memory of crystal shape. This parameter links the distributions of the two axes, allowing characterization of particle lengths using a single distribution. The method uses four prognostic variables: the mass and number mixing ratios, and two axis length mixing ratios. Development of the method is presented, with testing described in Part II.
It is common for cloud microphysical models to use a single axis length to characterize ice crystals. These methods use either the diameter of an equivalent sphere or mass size equations in conjunction with the capacitance model to close the equations for ice vapor diffusion. Single-axis methods unnaturally constrain growth because real crystals evolve along at least two axis directions. Thus, they are unable to reproduce the simultaneous variation in mass mixing ratio, maximum dimension, and mass-weighted fall speeds. While mass size relations can at times capture the evolution of one of these with relatively low errors, the other properties are generally under- or overpredicted by 20%-40%. Part I of this study describes an adaptive habit method that evolves two axis dimensions, allowing feedbacks between aspect ratio changes and mass mixing-ratio evolution. The adaptive habit method evolves particle habit by prognosing number and mass mixing ratios along with two axis length mixing ratios. Compared with a detailed Lagrangian bin representation of ice habit distribution evolution in a parcel framework, the bulk method reproduces the ice mass mixing ratio, mean axis lengths, and mass-weighted fall speeds generally to within less than 5% relative error for layered and deeper mixed-phase clouds.
Using the outputs of 33 coupled models that participated in phase 5 of the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP5), the changes of the western North Pacific subtropical high (WNPSH) in the 2050-99 period under representative concentration pathway 4.5 and 8.5 (RCP4.5 andRCP8.5) scenarios relative to the 1950-99 period are analyzed. Under both scenarios, the projected changes in theWNPSH intensity are approximately zero in the multimodel ensemble mean (MME), and large intermodel spread is seen.About half of the models project an enhancedWNPSH and about half of the models project a weakenedWNPSHunder both scenarios. As revealed by both diagnostic studies and numerical simulations, the projected change in the WNPSH intensity is dominated by the change in the zonal sea surface temperature (SST) gradient between the tropical Indian Ocean (TIO) and the tropical western Pacific (TWP). A stronger (weaker) warming in the TIO is in favor of an enhanced (weakened)WNPSH, and a weaker (stronger) warming over the TWP is also in favor of an enhanced (weakened) WNPSH. The projected change of the WNPSH modulates the climate change over eastern China. Under both RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 scenarios, all of the models with a significantly increased (decreased) WNPSH intensity are associated with a significant increase in the precipitation over the northern (southern) part of eastern China and an enhanced (weakened) southerly wind.
This paper describes an integrated modeling system in which the Weather Research and Forecasting model (WRF) is nested within the Community Earth System Model (CESM). This system is validated for the simulation of a midlatitude cyclongesis event over the Southern Great Plains of the United States. The global atmospheric model CAM4 at T42 resolution in the CESM has missed this cyclogenesis, while the nested WRF at 30 km grid spacing (or finer) that is initialized with the CAM4 condition and laterally forced by the CAM4 successfully simulated the deepening midtropospheric trough and associated cyclogenesis. An analysis of the potential velocity evolution and sensitivity experiments show that it is the higher WRF resolution that allowed the realistic sharpening of the Ertel's Potential Vorticity (EPV) gradient and the ensuing cyclogenesis. The terrain resolution and the physical parameterizations, however, play little role in the difference between the CAM4 and the WRF in the CESM. The integrated WRF/CESM system is intended as one method of global climate modeling with regional simulation capabilities. The present case study also serves as a verification of the system by comparing with standalone WRF simulations forced by operational analyses.
Cloud top height (CTH) is an important factor in weather forecasting and monitoring. An accurate CTH has scientific significance for improving the quality of both weather analyses and numerical weather prediction. The three-dimensional geometric method has been widely recognized as a CTH calculation method that provides relatively high accuracy. In this paper, we used the theory of digital photogrammetry and remote sensing technology to establish a geometric photography model (GPM) that can simultaneously determine CTHs and cloud movement speed (CMS) by introducing the CMS into the collinearity equation of photogrammetry. The CTH is derived by constructing three-dimensional image pairs of multitemporal Multiangle Imaging Spectroradiometer (MISR) red spectral band images from three angles. Compared with CTHs observed by ground-based lidar at the United States Southern Great Plains, the difference of CTHs using the GPM relative to the reference value was less than 300 m. By analyzing the ground control points, the GPM error is estimated to be approximately 300 m. Compared with MISR CTH data, the CTHs calculated in this study were similar to that of MISR without wind.
Weather radar analysis has become increasingly sophisticated over the past 50 years, and efforts to keep software up to date have generally lagged behind the needs of the users. We argue that progress has been impeded by the fact that software has not been developed and shared as a community. Recently, the situation has been changing. In this paper, the developers of a number of open-source software (OSS) projects highlight the potential of OSS to advance radar-related research. We argue that the community-based development of OSS holds the potential to reduce duplication of efforts and to create transparency in implemented algorithms while improving the quality and scope of the software. We also conclude that there is sufficiently mature technology to support collaboration across different software projects. This could allow for consolidation toward a set of interoperable software platforms, each designed to accommodate very specific user requirements.
The behavior of lower atmospheric ozone and ozone exchanges at the snow surface were studied using a suite of platforms during the Ocean-Atmosphere-Sea Ice-Snow (OASIS) Spring 2009 experiment at an inland, coastal site east of Barrow, Alaska. A major objective was to investigate if and how much chemistry at the snow surface at the site contributes to springtime ozone depletion events (ODEs). Between March 8 and April 16, seven ODEs, with atmospheric ozone dropping below 1.0 ppbv, were observed. The depth of the ozone-depleted layer was variable, extending from the surface to similar to 200-800 m. ODEs most commonly occurred during low wind speed conditions with flow coming from the Arctic Ocean. Two high-sensitivity ozone chemiluminescence instruments were used to accurately define the remaining sub-ppbv ozone levels during ODEs. These measurements showed variable residual ODE ozone levels ranging between 0.010 and 0.100 ppbv. During the most extended ODE, when ozone remained below 1.0 ppbv for over 78 h, these measurements showed a modest ozone recovery or production in the early afternoon hours, resulting in increases in the ozone mixing ratio of 0.100 to 0.800 ppbv. The comparison between high-sensitivity ozone measurements and BrO measured by longpath differential absorption spectroscopy (DOAS) during ODEs indicated that at low ozone levels formation of BrO is controlled by the amount of available ozone. Measurements of ozone in air drawn from below the snow surface showed depleted ozone in the snowpack, with levels consistently remaining <6 ppbv independent of above-surface ambient air concentrations. The snowpack was always a sink of ozone. Ozone deposition velocities determined from ozone surface flux measurements by eddy covariance were on the order of 0.01 cm s(-1), which is of similar magnitude as ozone uptake rates found over snow at other polar sites that are not subjected to ODEs. The results from these multiple platform measurements unequivocally show that snow-atmosphere chemical exchanges of ozone at the measurement site do not exhibit a major contribution to ozone removal from the boundary layer and the formation of ODE.
Two 1-D atmospheric column models containing convective parameterization schemes are compared to a 3-D cloud system resolving model (CSRM) using a recent technique that admits study of responses of convection to small temperature and moisture anomalies. The MIT Single-Column Model (MSCM) and Diabat3 (D3) are the column models of study. There exist notable differences between the responses of the column models and those of the CSRM. Both column models retain prescribed temperature anomalies and MSCM retains moisture anomalies for much longer than the CSRM. D3 excessively warms anomalous moist layers. Neither column model warms the upper troposphere following moist anomalies or cools the upper troposphere following warm anomalies in the middle troposphere. Responses in both column models are mostly localsuggesting that a significant attribute of the CSRM response is missing from these models. Such differences have implications to the simulation of large-scale convective phenomena, such as the growth and propagation of convectively coupled waves (CCW). The technique employed herein can be used as a basis for tuning and modifying convective parameterization schemes.
An examination of 2 yr of Cloud-Aerosol Lidar Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) lidar observations and CloudSat cloud radar observations shows that ice clouds at temperatures below about -45C frequently fall below the CloudSat radar's detection threshold yet are readily detectable by the lidar. The CALIPSO ice water content (IWC) detection threshold is about 0.1 versus 5mg m-3 for CloudSat. This comparison emphasizes the need for developing a lidar-only IWC retrieval method that is reliable for high-altitude ice clouds at these temperatures in this climatically important zone of the upper troposphere. Microphysical measurements from 10 aircraft field programs, spanning latitudes from the Arctic to the tropics and temperatures from -86 to 0C, are used to develop relationships between the IWC and volume extinction coefficient s in visible wavelengths. Relationships used to derive a radiatively important ice cloud property, the ice effective diameter De, from are also developed. Particle size distributions (PSDs) and direct IWC measurements, together with evaluations of the ice particle shapes and comparisons with semidirect extinction measurements, are used in this analysis. Temperature-dependent De() and IWC- relationships developed empirically facilitate the retrieval of IWC from lidar-derived and De values and for comparison with other IWC observations. This suite of empirically derived relationships can be expressed analytically. These relationships can be used to derive IWC and De from and are developed for use in climate models to derive from prognosed values of IWC and specified PSD properties. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
An examination of 2 yr of Cloud-Aerosol Lidar Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) lidar observations and CloudSat cloud radar observations shows that ice clouds at temperatures below about 2458C frequently fall below the CloudSat radar's detection threshold yet are readily detectable by the lidar. The CALIPSO ice water content (IWC) detection threshold is about 0.1 versus 5 mg m23 for CloudSat. This comparison emphasizes the need for developing a lidar-only IWC retrieval method that is reliable for high-altitude ice clouds at these temperatures in this climatically important zone of the upper troposphere. Microphysical measurements from 10 aircraft field programs, spanning latitudes from the Arctic to the tropics and temperatures from 2868 to 08C, are used to develop relationships between the IWC and volume extinction coefficient in visible wavelengths. Relationships used to derive a radiatively important ice cloud property, the ice effective diameter De, from are also developed. Particle size distributions (PSDs) and direct IWC measurements, together with evaluations of the ice particle shapes and comparisons with semidirect extinction measurements, are used in this analysis. Temperaturedependent De() and IWC- relationships developed empirically facilitate the retrieval of IWC from lidar-derived and De values and for comparison with other IWC observations. This suite of empirically derived relationships can be expressed analytically. These relationships can be used to derive IWC and De from and are developed for use in climate models to derive from prognosed values of IWC and specified PSD properties.
The primary goal of this study is to derive ice particle terminal velocities from micron to centimeter sizes and for atmospheric pressures covering the range 200-1000 hPa from data spanning a wide range of locations, temperatures, and altitudes and to parameterize the results for use in cloud through cloud models. The study uses data from 10 field programs spanning the temperature range -86 degrees to 0 degrees C and encompassing a total of about 800 000 km of cloud horizontal pathlengths and includes measurements of ice particle size distributions (PSDs) and direct measurements of the ice water content (IWC). The necessary ice particle variables are derived using variables that are interconnected rather than varying independently from observations reported in the literature. A secondary goal of the study is to quantify the properties of ice cloud particle ensembles over a wide range of temperatures to further the understanding of how ice particle ensembles and ice clouds develop. Functional forms for the PSDs and mass-and area-dimensional relationships are developed from the observations and summarized in a table. The PSDs are found to be nearly exponential at temperatures from about -40 degrees to -10 degrees C although deviations from exponentiality are noted outside of this range. It is demonstrated that previous pressure-dependent corrections to ice fall speeds lead to overestimated terminal velocities for particles smaller than 1 mm, particularly so for sizes below 100 mu m, with consequent effects on modeled lifetimes of cold ice clouds.
Ambient particles and the dry residuals of mixed-phase cloud droplets and ice crystals were collected during the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) near Barrow, Alaska, in spring of 2008. The collected particles were analyzed using Computer Controlled Scanning Electron Microscopy with Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis and Scanning Transmission X-ray Microscopy coupled with Near Edge X-ray Absorption Fine Structure spectroscopy to identify physico-chemical properties that differentiate cloud-nucleating particles from the total aerosol population. A wide range of individually mixed components was identified in the ambient particles and residuals including organic carbon compounds, inorganics, carbonates, and black carbon. Our results show that cloud droplet residuals differ from the ambient particles in both size and composition, suggesting that both properties may impact the cloud-nucleating ability of aerosols in mixed-phase clouds. The percentage of residual particles which contained carbonates (47%) was almost four times higher than those in ambient samples. Residual populations were also enhanced in sea salt and black carbon and reduced in organic compounds relative to the ambient particles. Further, our measurements suggest that chemical processing of aerosols may improve their cloud-nucleating ability. Comparison of results for various time periods within ISDAC suggests that the number and composition of cloud-nucleating particles over Alaska can be influenced by episodic events bringing aerosols from both the local vicinity and as far away as Siberia.
The Finnish Meteorological Institute, in collaboration with the University of Helsinki, has established a new ground-based remote-sensing network in Finland. The network consists of five topographically, ecologically and climatically different sites distributed from southern to northern Finland. The main goal of the network is to monitor air pollution and boundary layer properties in near real time, with a Doppler lidar and ceilometer at each site. In addition to these operational tasks, two sites are members of the Aerosols, Clouds and Trace gases Research InfraStructure Network (ACTRIS); a K-a band cloud radar at Sodankyla will provide cloud retrievals within CloudNet, and a multi-wavelength Raman lidar, Polly(XT) (POrtabLe Lidar sYstem eXTended), in Kuopio provides optical and microphysical aerosol properties through EARLINET (the European Aerosol Research Lidar Network). Three C-band weather radars are located in the Helsinki metropolitan area and are deployed for operational and research applications. We performed two inter-comparison campaigns to investigate the Doppler lidar performance, compare the backscatter signal and wind profiles, and to optimize the lidar sensitivity through adjusting the telescope focus length and data-integration time to ensure sufficient signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in low-aerosol-content environments. In terms of statistical characterization, the wind-profile comparison showed good agreement between different lidars. Initially, there was a discrepancy in the SNR and attenuated backscatter coefficient profiles which arose from an incorrectly reported telescope focus setting from one instrument, together with the need to calibrate. After diagnosing the true telescope focus length, calculating a new attenuated backscatter coefficient profile with the new telescope function and taking into account calibration, the resulting attenuated backscatter profiles all showed good agreement with each other. It was thought that harsh Finnish winters could pose problems, but, due to the built-in heating systems, low ambient temperatures had no, or only a minor, impact on the lidar operation - including scanning-head motion. However, accumulation of snow and ice on the lens has been observed, which can lead to the formation of a water/ice layer thus attenuating the signal inconsistently. Thus, care must be taken to ensure continuous snow removal.
Statistical characteristics of cloud variability are examined for their dependence on averaging scales and best representation of probability density function with the decade-long retrieval products of cloud liquid water path (LWP) from the tropical western Pacific (TWP), Southern Great Plains (SGP), and North Slope of Alaska (NSA) sites of the Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program. The statistical moments of LWP show some seasonal variation at the SGP and NSA sites but not much at the TWP site. It is found that the standard deviation, relative dispersion (the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean), and skewness all quickly increase with the averaging window size when the window size is small andbecomemore or less flat when thewindowsize exceeds 12 h. On average, the cloud LWP at the TWPsite has the largest values of standard deviation, relative dispersion, and skewness, whereas the NSA site exhibits the least. Correlation analysis shows that there is a positive correlation between the mean LWP and the standard deviation. The skewness is found to be closely related to the relative dispersion with a correlation coefficient of 0.6. The comparison further shows that the lognormal, Weibull, and gamma distributions reasonably explain the observed relationship between skewness and relative dispersion over a wide range of scales.
The effects of subgrid cloud variability on grid-average microphysical rates and radiative fluxes are examined by use of long-term retrieval products at the Tropical West Pacific, Southern Great Plains, and North Slope of Alaska sites of the Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program. Four commonly used distribution functions, the truncated Gaussian, Gamma, lognormal, and Weibull distributions, are constrained to have the same mean and standard deviation as observed cloud liquid water content. The probability density functions are then used to upscale relevant physical processes to obtain grid-average process rates. It is found that the truncated Gaussian representation results in up to 30% mean bias in autoconversion rate, whereas the mean bias for the lognormal representation is about 10%. The Gamma and Weibull distribution function performs the best for the grid-average autoconversion rate with the mean relative bias less than 5%. For radiative fluxes, the lognormal and truncated Gaussian representations perform better than the Gamma and Weibull representations. The results show that the optimal choice of subgrid cloud distribution function depends on the nonlinearity of the process of interest, and thus, there is no single distribution function that works best for all parameterizations. Examination of the scale (window size) dependence of the mean bias indicates that the bias in grid-average process rates monotonically increases with increasing window sizes, suggesting the increasing importance of subgrid variability with increasing grid sizes.
Naked-eye observation of cloud cover has widely resisted automation. Replacement of human observation by instruments is an inexorable trend for the development of ground-based macroscopic cloud observation. In this paper, cloud covers from an all-sky imager (AST) are compared with those from a meteorological observer (MO) through field experiments performed at three sites in China. The correlation coefficient between ASI and MO is 0.77 for all cases. The ASI cloud fractions have great agreement with MO for clear sky, overcast sky, and sky loaded with low- and middle-level clouds. About 78% of the ASI cases had deviations between +/- 1 tenth compared to MO cloud cover. High-level cloud (or aerosol) is the main reason causing this difference. It is partially due to MO, who takes aerosol as high, thin cloud. Another reason might be that ASI made a wrong estimation for high-level cloud (or aerosol) because of its detector and the cloud-determination algorithm. Distinguishing high, thin cloud from aerosol is a challenge, and is the main problem that needs to be resolved for future developments of ASI. A new, improved method is discussed at the end of this paper.
Over the past few decades, sea ice retreat during summer has been enhanced in the Pacific sector of the Arctic basin, likely due in part to increasing summertime heat flux of Pacific-origin water from the Bering Strait. Barrow Canyon, in the northeast Chukchi Sea, is a major conduit through which the Pacific-origin water enters the Arctic basin. This paper presents results from 6 repeat high-resolution shipboard hydrographic/velocity sections occupied across Barrow Canyon in summer 2010. The different Pacific water masses feeding the canyon - Alaskan coastal water (ACW), summer Bering Sea water (BSW), and Pacific winter water (PWW) - all displayed significant intra-seasonal variability. Net volume transports through the canyon were between 0.96 and 1.70Sv poleward, consisting of 0.41-0.98Sv of warm Pacific water (ACW and BSW) and 0.28-0.65Sv of PWW. The poleward heat flux also varied strongly, ranging from 8.56TW to 24.56TW, mainly due to the change in temperature of the warm Pacific water. Using supplemental mooring data from the core of the warm water, along with wind data from the Pt. Barrow weather station, we derive and assess a proxy for estimating heat flux in the canyon for the summer time period, which is when most of the heat passes northward towards the basin. The average heat flux for 2010 was estimated to be 3.34TW, which is as large as the previous record maximum in 2007. This amount of heat could melt 315,000kmsup2/sup of 1-meter thick ice, which likely contributed to significant summer sea ice retreat in the Pacific sector of the Arctic Ocean. 2015 The Authors.
Ice clouds have significant impacts on the Earth's radiative budget. Their radiative impact highly depends on ice cloud microphysical properties. Climate and weather prediction models have to make certain assumptions about how the various processes are represented. Observations of how cloud properties vary with environmental conditions can help evaluate some parameterizations used in models. However, sufficient data are not available to characterize how ice crystal properties vary as a function of environmental conditions. Furthermore, many of these assumptions are derived from historical datasets collected by in situ probes, namely optical array probes that can be contaminated by shattered artifacts generated by large particles shattering on the probe tips and inlets. Therefore this study has two main objectives. Prior estimates of ice crystal size distributions derived from 2D Cloud Probes (2DCs) have been artificially amplified by small ice crystals generated from the shattering of large ice crystals on the probe tips. Although anti-shatter tips and algorithms exist, there is considerable uncertainty in their effectiveness. Therefore, this thesis first examines the differences in ice crystal size distributions, and bulk and optical properties from adjacent 2DCs with standard and anti-shatter tips, and processed with and without anti-shattering algorithms. The measurements were obtained from the National Research Council of Canada Convair-580 during the 2008 Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) and the National Center for Atmospheric Research C-130 during the 2011 Instrumentation Development and Education in Airborne Science 2011 (IDEAS-2011). The 2DC size distributions are compared with those from the Holographic Detector for Clouds (HOLODEC), which has anti-shatter tips and allows for identification of shattering through spatial statistics. The ratio of the number concentration N of particles with maximum dimensions 125 to 500 mum from the 2DC with standard tips to that from the 2DC with modified tips was correlated with median mass diameter and perimeter divided by area, but not with air speed, attack and attitude angles. Anti-shatter tips and algorithms reduced N by up to a factor of 10 for IDEAS-2011 and ISDAC, but neither alone removed all artifacts. For the period with coincident data, N from the HOLODEC and 2DC with modified tips are both around 5 x 10-3L -1 mum-1, suggesting that anti-shatter tips and algorithms combined remove artifacts from the 2DC for the conditions sampled during IDEAS-2011. To assess the applicability of 2DC data obtained without anti-shatter tips previously used in parameterization schemes for numerical models and remote sensing retrievals, the impacts of artifacts on bulk microphysical and scattering properties were examined by quantifying differences between such properties derived from 2DCs with standard and anti-shatter tips, and with and without the use of shatter detection algorithms using the ISDAC and IDEAS-2011 data. Using either modified tips or algorithms changed quantities dominated by higher order moments such as ice water content, bulk extinction, effective radius, mass weighted terminal velocity, median mass diameter, asymmetry parameter and single scatter albedo at wavenumbers from 5 to 100 cm -1 and wavelengths of 0.5 to 5 mum by less than 20%. This is significantly less than the fractional changes in quantities dominated by lower order moments such as number concentration. The results suggest that model parameterizations and remote sensing techniques based on higher order moments of ice particle size distributions obtained in conditions similar to those sampled during IDEAS-2011 and ISDAC derived from 2DCs are not as biased by shattered remnants compared to those derived from lower order moments. The second main objective of this thesis was to examine the dependence of ice cloud microphysical properties derived from the 2D Stereo and 2D Precipitation Probes on board the Stratton Park Engineering Company (SPEC) Learjet during the Small Ice Particles in Cirrus (SPARTICUS) experiment on temperature, and formation mechanism. An existing approach that represents a size distribution (SD) as a single gamma function using an ellipse of equally realizable solutions in (N0, lambda, mu) phase space was modified to automatically identify multiple modes in SDs and characterize each mode by such an ellipse. The dependencies of N0, mu, lambda from each mode, total number concentration, bulk extinction, ice water content, and median (mass) diameter as a function of T and formation mechanism were determined. The changes in the observed codependencies between N0, mu, and lambda, as well as ice water content, extinction, and median (mass) diameter with environmental conditions indicate that particles grew to larger sizes at higher temperatures during SPARTICUS. No more than 2 modes were observed in SDs during SPARTICUS. The average boundary between the two modes was at 115 mum, similar to past studies not using probes with shatter mitigating tips and artifact removal algorithms. The bimodality of the SD was more frequent with increasing T, consistent with past studies that hypothesized that the bimodality was caused by nucleation occurring in the presence of sedimentation. Furthermore, the differences in the observed codependencies of N0, mu, and lambda between the two modes were consistent with past studies attributing these differences to particles in the mode with smaller maximum dimensions D growing primarily by deposition and the particles in the mode with larger D by both aggregation and vapor deposition. ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric sciences, Meteorology. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
The variability of cirrus ice microphysical properties is investigated using observations obtained during the Small Particles in Cirrus (SPARTICUS) campaign. An existing approach that represents a size distribution (SD) as a single gamma function using an ellipsoid of equally realizable solutions in (N-0, lambda, mu) phase space is modified to automatically identify multiple modes in SDs and characterize each mode by such an ellipsoid. The modified approach is applied to ice crystals with maximum dimension D > 15 mu m collected by the 2-D stereo and 2-D precipitation probes on the Stratton Park Engineering Company Learjet. The dependencies of N-0, mu, and lambda from each mode, total number concentration, bulk extinction, ice water content (IWC), and mass median maximum dimension D-mm as a function of temperature T and cirrus type are then analyzed. The changes in the observed codependencies between N-0, mu, and lambda, bulk extinction, IWC, and D-mm with environmental conditions indicate that particles were larger at higher T during SPARTICUS. At most two modes were observed in any SD during SPARTICUS, with the average boundary between them at 115 mu m, similar to past studies not using probes with shatter mitigating tips and artifact removal algorithms. The bimodality of the SDs increased with T. This and the differences in N-0, mu, and lambda between the modes suggest that particles with smaller D nucleated more recently than particles with larger D, which grew via vapor deposition and aggregation. Because smaller crystals, whose concentrations are uncertain, make marginal contributions to higher order moments, the use of higher moments for evaluating model fields is suggested.
Prior estimates of ice crystal size distributions derived from 2D cloud probes (2DCs) have been artificially amplified by small ice crystals generated from the shattering of large ice crystals on the probe tips. Although antishatter tips and algorithms exist, there is considerable uncertainty in their effectiveness. This paper examines differences in ice crystal size distributions from adjacent 2DCs with standard and antishatter tips, and processed with and without antishattering algorithms. The measurements were obtained from the National Research Council of Canada Convair-580 during the 2008 Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) and the National Center for Atmospheric Research C-130 during the 2011 Instrumentation Development and Education in Airborne Science (IDEAS-2011). The 2DC size distributions are compared with those from the Holographic Detector for Clouds (HOLODEC), which has antishatter tips and allows for identification of shattering through spatial statistics. The ratio of the number concentration N of particles with maximum dimensions 125-500 m from the 2DC with standard tips to that from the 2DC with modified tips was correlated with median mass diameter and perimeter divided by area, but not with airspeed, attack, and attitude angles. Antishatter tips and algorithms reducedNby up to a factor of 10 for IDEAS-2011 and ISDAC, but neither alone removed all artifacts. For the period with coincident data, both N from the HOLODEC and 2DC with modified tips are around 5 10-3L-1 m-1, suggesting that antishatter tips and algorithms combined remove artifacts from the 2DC for the conditions sampled during IDEAS-2011.
Space-borne active instruments, providing a vertically resolved characterization of clouds, promise a new dimension of information to be used in numerical weather prediction systems. Research activities are ongoing at the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts to exploit these data for monitoring and assimilation purposes. Using currently available observations from CloudSat and CALIPSO, a technique combining one-dimensional variational (1D-Var) assimilation with four-dimensional variational (4D-Var) data assimilation has been used to study the impact of cloud-related observations on analyses and subsequent forecasts. Temperature and specific humidity vertical profiles retrieved from 1D-Var using observations of cloud radar reflectivity and lidar backscatter, either separately or in combination, were used as pseudo-observations in the 4D-Var system. Results indicate that 1D-Var analyses get closer to assimilated and also independent observations when appropriate quality control, bias correction and error estimate are applied. The performed 1D+4D-Var assimilation experiments also suggest a slight positive impact of the new observations on the subsequent forecast. Generally, the impact of lidar backscatter from clouds is smaller than that of cloud radar reflectivity.
This paper presents an approach to locally predict homogeneity of the subgrid-scale turbulent mixing in large-eddy simulation of shallow clouds applying double-moment warm-rain microphysics. The homogeneity of subgrid-scale mixing refers to the partitioning of the cloud water evaporation due to parameterized entrainment between changes of the mean droplet radius and changes of the mean droplet concentration. Homogeneous and extremely inhomogeneous mixing represent two limits of possible scenarios, where the droplet concentration and the mean droplet radius remains unchanged during the microphysical adjustment, respectively. To predict the subgrid-scale mixing scenario, the double-moment microphysics scheme is merged with the approach to delay droplet evaporation resulting from entrainment. Details of the new scheme and its application in the Barbados Oceanographic and Meteorological Experiment (BOMEX) shallow convection case are discussed. The simulated homogeneity of mixing varies significantly inside small convective clouds, from close to homogeneous to close to extremely inhomogeneous. The mean mixing characteristics become more homogeneous with height, reflecting increases of the mean droplet size and the mean turbulence intensity, both favoring homogeneous mixing. Model results are consistent with microphysical effects of entrainment and mixing deduced from field observations. Mixing close to homogeneous is predicted in volumes with the highest liquid water content (LWC) and strongest updraft at a given height, whereas mixing in strongly diluted volumes is typically close to extremely inhomogeneous. The simulated homogeneity of mixing has a small impact on mean microphysical characteristics. This result agrees with the previous study applying prescribed mixing scenarios and can be explained by the high humidity of the clear air involved in the subgrid-scale mixing.
This paper discusses aircraft observations and large-eddy simulation (LES) modeling of 15 May 2008, North Sea boundary-layer clouds from the EUCAARI-IMPACT field campaign. These clouds are advected from the northeast by the prevailing lower-tropospheric winds and featured stratocumulus-over-cumulus cloud formations. An almost-solid stratocumulus deck in the upper part of the relatively deep, weakly decoupled marine boundary layer overlays a field of small cumuli. The two cloud formations have distinct microphysical characteristics that are in general agreement with numerous past observations of strongly diluted shallow cumuli on one hand and solid marine stratocumulus on the other. Based on the available observations, a LES model setup is developed and applied in simulations using a novel LES model. The model features a double-moment warm-rain bulk microphysics scheme combined with a sophisticated subgrid-scale scheme allowing local prediction of the homogeneity of the subgrid-scale turbulent mixing. The homogeneity depends on the characteristic time scales for the droplet evaporation and for the turbulent homogenization. In the model, these scales are derived locally based on the subgrid-scale turbulent kinetic energy, spatial scale of cloudy filaments, mean cloud droplet radius, and humidity of the cloud-free air entrained into a cloud, all predicted by the LES model. The model reproduces contrasting macrophysical and microphysical characteristics of the cumulus and stratocumulus cloud layers. Simulated subgrid-scale turbulent mixing within the cumulus layer and near the stratocumulus top is on average quite inhomogeneous, but varies significantly depending on the local conditions.
The Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) took place during the spring of 2011 centered in north-central Oklahoma, USA. The main goal of this field campaign was to capture the dynamical and microphysical characteristics of precipitating convective systems in the US Central Plains. A major component of the campaign was a six-site radiosonde array designed to capture the large-scale variability of the atmospheric state with the intent of deriving model forcing data sets. Over the course of the 46-day MC3E campaign, a total of 1362 radiosondes were launched from the enhanced sonde network. This manuscript provides details on the instrumentation used as part of the sounding array, the data processing activities including quality checks and humidity bias corrections and an analysis of the impacts of bias correction and algorithm assumptions on the determination of convective levels and indices. It is found that corrections for known radiosonde humidity biases and assumptions regarding the characteristics of the surface convective parcel result in significant differences in the derived values of convective levels and indices in many soundings. In addition, the impact of including the humidity corrections and quality controls on the thermodynamic profiles that are used in the derivation of a large-scale model forcing data set are investigated. The results show a significant impact on the derived large-scale vertical velocity field illustrating the importance of addressing these humidity biases.
The Clouds and the Earth's Radiant Energy System (CERES) generates one of the few global satellite radiation products. The CERES ARM Validation Experiment (CAVE) has been providing long-term in situ observations for the validation of the CERES products. However, the number of these sites is low and their distribution is globally sparse, and particularly the surface net radiation product has not been rigorously validated yet. Therefore, additional validation efforts are highly required to determine the accuracy of the CERES radiation products. In this study, global land surface measurements were comprehensively collected for use in the validation of the CERES net radiation (Rn) product on a daily (340 sites) and a monthly (260 sites) basis, respectively. The validation results demonstrated that the CERES Rn product was, overall, highly accurate. The daily validations had a Mean Bias Error (MBE) of 3.43 W m-2, Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) of 33.56 W m-2, and R2 of 0.79, and the monthly validations had an MBE of 3.40 W m-2, RMSE of 25.57 W m-2, and R2 of 0.84. The accuracy was slightly lower for the high latitudes. Following the validation, the monthly CERES Rn product, from March 2000 to July 2014, was used for a further analysis. The global spatiotemporal variation of the Rn, which occurred during the measurement period, was analyzed. In addition, two hot spot regions, the southern Great Plains and south-central Africa, were then selected for use in determining the driving factors or attribution of the Rn variation. We determined that Rn over the southern Great Plains decreased by -0.33 W m-2 per year, which was mainly driven by changes in surface green vegetation and precipitation. In south-central Africa, Rn decreased at a rate of -0.63 W m-2 per year, the major driving factor of which was surface green vegetation.
The kinematic and thermodynamic characteristics of the October and November 2011 Madden-Julian oscillations (MJOs) that occurred over the Indian Ocean during Dynamics of the MJO (DYNAMO) are investigated. Analyses are presented 1) for two primary sounding arrays, where results are independent of model parameterizations, and 2) on larger scales, including the Indian Ocean, using operational and reanalysis data. Mean precipitation duringDYNAMOwas characterized bymaxima in two east-west bands north and south of the equator. This pattern alternated between two bands during the inactive phase of the MJOs and a single rainfall maximum on the equator during the active phases. Precipitation over the northern sounding array (NSA), where theMJOsignal was strongest, was significantlymodulated by theMJOs, while the southern array experienced more frequent, briefer episodes of rainfall mostly related to ITCZ convection. Over the NSA the MJOs were characterized by gradual moistening of the low to midtroposphere over approximately 2-week periods. The October MJO featured multiple westward-moving, 2-day disturbances whereas the November MJO principally comprised two prominent Kelvin waves. Patterns of moistening, divergence, and vertical motion suggest a stepwise progression of convection, from shallow cumulus to congestus to deep convection. Tilted thermal anomalies in the upper troposphere-lower stratosphere reveal gravity or Kelvin waves excited by the MJO convective envelopes, which modulate the tropopause and contribute to preactive-phase uppertropospheric moistening. While there is a number of similarities in the characteristics of the two MJOs, there are sufficient differences to warrant caution in generalizing results from these two events. 2013 American Meteorological Society.
The Dynamics of theMadden-Julian Oscillation (DYNAMO) field campaign, conducted over the Indian Ocean from October 2011 to March 2012, was designed to study the initiation of the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO). Two prominentMJOs occurred in the experimental domain during the special observing period in October and November. Data from a northern and a southern sounding array (NSA and SSA, respectively) have been used to investigate the apparent heat sources and sinks (Q1 and Q2) and radiative heating rates QR throughout the life cycles of the two MJO events. The MJO signal was far stronger in the NSA than the SSA. Time series of Q1, Q2, and the vertical eddy flux of moist static energy reveal an evolution of cloud systems for both MJOs consistent with prior studies: shallow, nonprecipitating cumulus during the suppressed phase, followed by cumulus congestus, then deep convection during the active phase, and finally stratiform precipitation. However, the duration of these phases was shorter for the November MJO than for the October event. The profiles of Q1 and Q2 for the two arrays indicate a greater stratiform rain fraction for the NSA than the SSA-a finding supported by TRMM measurements. Surface rainfall rates and net tropospheric QR determined as residuals from the budgets show good agreement with satellite-based estimates. The cloud radiative forcing was approximately 20% of the column-integrated convective heating and of the same amplitude as the normalized gross moist stability, leaving open the possibility of radiative-convective instability for the two MJOs. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
Extensive measurements from ground-based sites and satellite remote sensing (CloudSat and CALIPSO) reveal the existence of two types of ice clouds (TICs) in the Arctic during the polar night and early spring. The first type (TIC-2A), being topped by a cover of nonprecipitating very small (radar unseen) ice crystals (TIC-1), is found more frequently in pristine environment, whereas the second type (TIC-2B), detected by both sensors, is associated preferentially with a high concentration of aerosols. To further investigate the microphysical properties of TIC-1/2A and TIC-2B, airborne in situ and satellite measurements of specific cases observed during Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) have been analyzed. For the first time, Arctic TIC-1/2A and TIC-2B microstructures are compared using in situ cloud observations. Results show that the differences between them are confined in the upper part of the clouds where ice nucleation occurs. TIC-2B clouds are characterized by fewer (by more than 1 order of magnitude) and larger (by a factor of 2 to 3) ice crystals and a larger ice supersaturation (of 15-20%) compared to TIC-1/2A. Ice crystal growth in TIC-2B clouds seems explosive, whereas it seems more gradual in TIC-1/2A. It is hypothesized that these differences are linked to the number concentration and the chemical composition of aerosols. The ice crystal growth rate in very cold conditions impinges on the precipitation efficiency, dehydration and radiation balance. These results represent an essential and important first step to relate previous modeling, remote sensing and laboratory studies with TICs cloud in situ observations. Citation: Jouan, C., E. Girard, J. Pelon, I. Gultepe, J. Delanoe, and J.-P. Blanchet (2012), Characterization of Arctic ice cloud properties observed during ISDAC, J. Geophys. Res., 117, D23207, doi:10.1029/2012JD017889.
Knowledge of the statistical characteristics of inversions and their effects on aerosols under different large-scale synoptic circulations is important for studying and modeling the diffusion of pollutants in the boundary layer. Based on results generated using the self-organizing map (SOM) weather classification method, this study compares the statistical characteristics of surface-based inversions (SBIs) and elevated inversions (EIs), and quantitatively evaluates the effect of SBIs on aerosol condensation nuclei (CN) concentrations and the relationship between temperature gradients and aerosols for six prevailing synoptic patterns over the the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site during 2001-10. Large-scale synoptic patterns strongly influence the statistical characteristics of inversions and the accumulation of aerosols in the low-level atmosphere. The activity, frequency, intensity, and vertical distribution of inversions are significantly different among these synoptic patterns. The vertical distribution of inversions varies diurnally and is significantly different among the different synoptic patterns. Anticyclonic patterns affect the accumulation of aerosols near the ground more strongly than cyclonic patterns. Mean aerosol CN concentrations increase during SBIs compared to no inversion cases by 16.1%, 22.6%, 24.5%, 58.7%, 29.8% and 23.7% for the six synoptic patterns. This study confirms that there is a positive correlation between temperature gradients and aerosol CN concentrations near the ground at night under similar large-scale synoptic patterns. The relationship is different for different synoptic patterns and can be described by linear functions. These findings suggest that large-scale synoptic patterns change the static stability of the atmosphere and inversions in the lower atmosphere, thereby influencing the diffusion of aerosols near the ground.
This paper focuses on climatology of the vertical distribution of aerosol optical depth (AOD (z)) from micropulse lidar (MPL) observations for climatically different locations worldwide. For this, a large data set obtained by MPL systems operating at 532 nm during the 4 year period 2007-2010 was used to derive vertical profiles of AOD (z) by combining the corresponding AOD data as an input from an independent measurement using nearly colocated multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer (MFRSR) systems at five different U. S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program sites-three permanent sites (SGP in north-central Oklahoma, at 36.6 degrees N, 97.5 degrees W, 320 m; TWP-Darwin in the tropical western Pacific, at 12.4 degrees S, 130.9 degrees E, 30m; and NSA at Barrow on the North Slope of Alaska, at 71.3 degrees N, 156.6 degrees W, 8 m) and two mobile facility sites (GRW at Graciosa Island in the Azores, at 39 degrees N, 28 degrees W, 15 m; and FKB in the Black Forest of Germany, at 48.5 degrees N, 8.4 degrees E, 511 m). Therefore, amount of data used in this study is constrained by the availability of the MFRSR data. The MPL raw data were averaged for 30 s in time and 30 m in altitude. The diurnally averaged AOD (z) profiles from 4 years were combined to obtain a multiyear vertical profile of AOD (z) climatology at various ARM sites, including diurnal, day-to-day, and seasonal variabilities. Most aerosols were found to be confined to 0-2 km (approximately the planetary boundary layer region) at all sites; however, all sites exhibited measurable aerosols well above the mixed layer, with different height maxima. The entire data set demonstrates large day-to-day variability at all sites. However, there is no significant diurnal variation in AOD (z) at all sites. Significant interannual variability was observed at the SGP site. Clear seasonal variations in AOD (z) profiles exist for all five sites, but seasonal behavior was distinct. Moreover, the different seasonal variability for the lower level (0 to similar to 2 km) versus the level above indicates a contribution of different types of air masses from different sources. The lower annual mean AOD (z) values (0.093 +/- 0.033 for daytime and 0.093 +/- 0.05 for nighttime) observed near the surface at GRW are not unexpected for maritime aerosols (mostly sea salt), and the corresponding higher values at SGP (0.118 +/- 0.038 for daytime and 0.11 +/- 0.05 for nighttime), FKB (0.124 +/- 0.042 for daytime and 0.127 +/- 0.047 for nighttime), and TWP (0.13 +/- 0.078 for daytime and 0.14 +/- 0.073 for nighttime) are usual for continental aerosols. The annual mean AOD (z) values observed near the surface during daytime and nighttime for NSA were 0.1 +/- 0.042 and 0.09 +/- 0.037, respectively. These results will aid the scientific community in understanding aerosol properties and boundary layer dynamics and in improving the incorporation of aerosol radiative effects into global climate models.
Ice cloud properties are influenced by cloud-scale vertical air motion. Dynamical properties of ice clouds can be determined via Doppler measurements from ground-based, profiling cloud radars. Here, the decomposition of the Doppler velocities into reflectivity-weighted particle velocity V-t and vertical air motion w is described. The methodology is applied to high clouds observations from 35-GHz profiling millimeter wavelength radars at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) climate research facility in Oklahoma (January 1997-December 2010) and the ARM Tropical Western Pacific (TWP) site in Manus (July 1999-December 2010). The Doppler velocity measurements are used to detect gravity waves (GW), whose correlation with high cloud macrophysical properties is investigated. Cloud turbulence is studied in the absence and presence of GW. High clouds are less turbulent when GW are observed. Probability density functions of V-t, w, and high cloud macrophysical properties for the two cloud subsets (with and without GW) are presented. Air-density-corrected V-t for high clouds for which GW (no GW) were detected amounted to hourly means and standard deviations of 0.89 +/- 0.52 m s(-1) (0.8 +/- 0.48 m s(-1)) and 1.03 +/- 0.41 m s(-1) (0.86 +/- 0.49 m s(-1)) at SGP and Manus, respectively. The error of w at one standard deviation was estimated as 0.15 m s(-1). Hourly means of w averaged around 0 m s(-1) with standard deviations of +/- 0.27 (SGP) and +/- 0.29 m s(-1) (Manus) for high clouds without GW and +/- 0.22 m s(-1) (both sites) for high clouds with GW. The midlatitude site showed stronger seasonality in detected high cloud properties.
Ground-based 35 GHz profiling Doppler cloud radar observations of ice clouds were used to derive the power law relation between Doppler velocity V-d and radar reflectivity Z (V-d = aZ(b)). By removing the vertical air motion from V-d, the power law can be rewritten as V-t = aZ(b) with V-t being the reflectivity-weighted particle terminal fall velocity. Profiles of this relation are variable with height. An attempt was made to relate this variability to the dominant microphysical processes in different layers of the cloud. Based on that, the possibility of using profiles of the parameters a and b to distinguish different microphysical regimes was explored. The methodology was applied to long-term measurements (January 1997 to December 2010) at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site in the Southern Great Plains. Principal component analysis was used to determine the modes of the profiles that explain most of the observed variance in the observations. Profile-averaged means and standard deviations of parameters a and b amounted to 0.65 +/- 0.42 and 0.03 +/- 0.19, respectively. Furthermore, three commonly used microphysical relations related to bulk quantities were used to determine values of a and b. These results were found to compare reasonably well with the values obtained from the radar observations. Finally, microphysical considerations showed that radar-derived values of parameter b can be explained in terms of particle size distribution moment changes.
Radar Doppler spectra measurements are exploited to study a riming event when precipitating ice from a seeder cloud sediment through a supercooled liquid water (SLW) layer. The focus is on the 'golden sample' case study for this type of analysis based on observations collected during the deployment of the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's (ARM) mobile facility AMF2 at Hyytiala, Finland, during the Biogenic Aerosols - Effects on Clouds and Climate (BAECC) field campaign. The presented analysis of the height evolution of the radar Doppler spectra is a state-of-the-art retrieval with profiling cloud radars in SLW layers beyond the traditional use of spectral moments. Dynamical effects are considered by following the particle population evolution along slanted tracks that are caused by horizontal advection of the cloud under wind shear conditions. In the SLW layer, the identified liquid peak is used as an air motion tracer to correct the Doppler spectra for vertical air motion and the ice peak is used to study the radar profiles of rimed particles. A 1-D steady-state bin microphysical model is constrained using the SLW and air motion profiles and cloud top radar observations. The observed radar moment profiles of the rimed snow can be simulated reasonably well by the model, but not without making several assumptions about the ice particle concentration and the relative role of deposition and aggregation. This suggests that in situ observations of key ice properties are needed to complement the profiling radar observations before process-oriented studies can effectively evaluate ice microphysical parameterizations.
The authors estimate summer mean boundary layer water and energy budgets along a northeast Pacific transect from 35 degrees to 15 degrees N, which includes the transition from marine stratocumulus to trade cumulus clouds. Observational data is used from three A-Train satellites, Aqua, CloudSat, and the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO); data derived from GPS signals intercepted by microsatellites of the Constellation Observing System for Meteorology, Ionosphere, and Climate (COSMIC); and the container-ship-based Marine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment Cloud System Study/Working Group on Numerical Experimentation (GCSS/WGNE) Pacific Cross-Section Intercomparison (GPCI) Investigation of Clouds (MAGIC) campaign. These are unique satellite and shipborne observations providing the first global-scale observations of light precipitation, new vertically resolved radiation budget products derived from the active sensors, and well-sampled radiosonde data near the transect. In addition to the observations, the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) Interim Re-Analysis (ERA-Interim) fields are utilized to estimate the budgets. Both budgets approach within 3W m(-2) averaged along the transect, although uncertainty estimates from the study are much larger than this residual. A mean entrainment rate along the transect of 3.4(-1.1)(+1.2) mm s(-1) is also estimated. A gradual transition is observed in the climatological mean from the stratocumulus regime to the cumulus regime characterized by an increase in boundary layer height, latent heat flux, rain, and the horizontal advection of dry air and a decrease in entrainment of warm dry air.
We use radiosonde data from the ship-based Marine ARM GPCI Investigation of Clouds (MAGIC) campaign in the northeast Pacific to validate temperature and moisture profiles from the satellite-based Atmospheric Infrared Sounder (AIRS) instrument and from European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) ERA-Interim reanalysis data. We find that AIRS and ECMWF rms errors and biases are largest near the boundary layer inversion. In the mean vertical profile over the entire MAGIC track, the largest AIRS biases for T and q are 0.4 K and -0.6 g kg(-1) at 516 hPa and 866 hPa, respectively. We also find that AIRS and ECMWF slightly underestimate the boundary layer height in the region.
During the COPS experiment performed in south-western Germany and eastern France in 2007, several insitu and remote sensing systems were operated at Hornisgrinde - the highest summit of the northern Black Forest mountains. For this case study, data from a surface flux station, radiosondes, cloud camera, cloud radar, wind lidar, water vapour differential absorption lidar, and microwave profiler were used to investigate turbulence characteristics in cloud-free and cloud-topped convective boundary layers (CBLs). Short time intervals were analysed, during which dry and moist convective cells occurred, in order to obtain insight of the processes that determine the turbulent characteristic in the CBL. The frequently-used aerosol concentration was used to calculate the CBL height, zi. It was found that active CBL clouds penetrated deeper into the free tropophere than dry convective cells. In the cloud-free CBL the normalised variance of the vertical velocity, w2, decreased to zero approximately at zi while w2 was nearly constant between 0.5 and 1 z/zi in the cloud-topped CBL. The higher normalised w2 values in the cloud layer could be attributed to the additional elevated heat source due to condensation. In the cloud-free CBL the latent heat flux showed a strong decrease between 0.7 and 1.1 z/zi i.e., it considerably moistened the upper part of the CBL and entrainment zone. In the cloud-topped CBL the latent heat flux decreased significantly above the CBL top only and became zero at about 1.4 z/zi. CBL height calculations, which took measures of the turbulence into account, resulted in normalised w2 and E profiles, which became zero at the CBL top and appeared more appropriate for CBL height scaling over complex terrain. The case studies demonstrated that only the combined use of different monitoring systems allowed for the recording of the entire structure of the convective cells and that synergetic measurements in cloud-topped CBLs were indispensable to capture the latters' turbulent characteristics. Also, significant differences between turbulent characteristics in cloud-free and cloud-topped CBLs became evident.
Areal-averaged albedos are particularly difficult to measure in coastal regions, because the surface is not homogenous, consisting of a sharp demarcation between land and water. With this difficulty in mind, we evaluate a simple retrieval of areal-averaged surface albedo using ground-based measurements of atmospheric transmission alone under fully overcast conditions. To illustrate the performance of our retrieval, we find the areal-averaged albedo using measurements from the Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR) at five wavelengths (415, 500, 615, 673, and 870 nm). These MFRSR data are collected at a coastal site in Graciosa Island, Azores supported by the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program. The areal-averaged albedos obtained from the MFRSR are compared with collocated and coincident Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) whitesky albedo at four nominal wavelengths (470, 560, 670 and 860 nm). These comparisons are made during a 19-month period (June 2009 - December 2010). We also calculate composite-based spectral values of surface albedo by a weighted-average approach using estimated fractions of major surface types observed in an area surrounding this coastal site. Taken as a whole, these three methods of finding albedo show spectral and temporal similarities, and suggest that our simple, transmission-based technique holds promise, but with estimated errors of about 0.03. Additional work is needed to reduce this uncertainty in areas with inhomogeneous surfaces.
We present here a simple retrieval of the areal-averaged spectral surface albedo using only ground-based measurements of atmospheric transmission under fully overcast conditions. Our retrieval is based on a one-line equation. The feasibility of our retrieval for routine determinations of albedo is demonstrated for different landscapes with various degrees of heterogeneity using three sets of measurements: (1) spectral atmospheric transmission from the Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR) at five wavelengths (415, 500, 615, 673, and 870 nm); (2) tower-based measurements of local surface albedo at the same wavelengths; and (3) areal-averaged surface albedo at four wavelengths (470, 560, 670 and 860 nm) from collocated and coincident Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) observations. These integrated datasets cover both temporally long (2008-2013) and short (April-May 2010) periods at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains site and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Table Mountain site, respectively. The calculated root mean square error (RMSE), defined here as the root mean squared difference between the MODIS-derived surface albedo and the retrieved areal-averaged albedo, is quite small (RMSE 0.015) and comparable with that obtained previously by other investigators for the shortwave broadband albedo. Good agreement between tower-based measurements of daily-averaged surface albedo for completely overcast and non-overcast conditions is also demonstrated. 2014 by the authors.
We introduce and evaluate a simple retrieval of areal-averaged surface albedo using ground-based measurements of atmospheric transmission alone at five wavelengths (415, 500, 615, 673 and 870nm), under fully overcast conditions. Our retrieval is based on a one-line semi-analytical equation and widely accepted assumptions regarding the weak spectral dependence of cloud optical properties, such as cloud optical depth and asymmetry parameter, in the visible and near-infrared spectral range. To illustrate the performance of our retrieval, we use as input measurements of spectral atmospheric transmission from the Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR). These MFRSR data are collected at two well-established continental sites in the United States supported by the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The areal-averaged albedos obtained from the MFRSR are compared with collocated and coincident Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) white-sky albedo. In particular, these comparisons are made at four MFRSR wavelengths (500, 615, 673 and 870nm) and for four seasons (winter, spring, summer and fall) at the ARM site using multi-year (2008-2013) MFRSR and MODIS data. Good agreement, on average, for these wavelengths results in small values (0.015) of the corresponding root mean square errors (RMSEs) for these two sites. The obtained RMSEs are comparable with those obtained previously for the shortwave albedos (MODIS-derived versus tower-measured) for these sites during growing seasons. We also demonstrate good agreement between tower-based daily-averaged surface albedos measured for nearby overcast and non-overcast days. Thus, our retrieval originally developed for overcast conditions likely can be extended for non-overcast days by interpolating between overcast retrievals.
Ground-based remote sensing and in situ observations of aerosol microphysical and optical properties have been collected during summertime (June-August, 2012) as part of the Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP; http://campaign.arm.gov/tcap/), which was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program (http://www.arm.gov/). The overall goal of the TCAP field campaign is to study the evolution of optical and microphysical properties of atmospheric aerosol transported from North America to the Atlantic and their impact on the radiation energy budget. During TCAP, the ground-based ARM Mobile Facility (AMF) was deployed on Cape Cod, an arm-shaped peninsula situated on the easternmost portion of Massachusetts (along the east coast of the United States) and that is generally downwind of large metropolitan areas. The AMF site was equipped with numerous instruments for sampling aerosol, cloud and radiative properties, including a Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR), a Scanning Mobility Particle Sizer (SMPS), an Aerodynamic Particle Sizer (APS), and a three-wavelength nephelometer. In this study we present an analysis of diurnal and day-to-day variability of the column and near-surface aerosol properties obtained from remote sensing (MFRSR data) and ground-based in situ measurements (SMPS, APS, and nephelometer data). In particular, we show that the observed diurnal variability of the MFRSR aerosol optical depth is strong and comparable with that obtained previously from the AERONET climatology in Mexico City, which has a larger aerosol loading. Moreover, we illustrate how the variability of aerosol properties impacts the direct aerosol radiative forcing at different time scales.
We propose here a novel approach for retrieving in parallel the effective density and real refractive index of weakly absorbing aerosol from optical and size distribution measurements. Here we define "weakly absorbing" as aerosol single-scattering albedos that exceed 0.95 at 0.5 mu m. The required optical measurements are the scattering coefficient and the hemispheric backscatter fraction, obtained in this work from an integrating nephelometer. The required size spectra come from mobility and aerodynamic particle size spectrometers commonly referred to as a scanning mobility particle sizer and an aerodynamic particle sizer. The performance of this approach is first evaluated using a sensitivity study with synthetically generated but measurement-related inputs. The sensitivity study reveals that the proposed approach is robust to random noise; additionally the uncertainties of the retrieval are almost linearly proportional to the measurement errors, and these uncertainties are smaller for the real refractive index than for the effective density. Next, actual measurements are used to evaluate our approach. These measurements include the optical, microphysical, and chemical properties of weakly absorbing aerosol which are representative of a variety of coastal summertime conditions observed during the Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP; http://campaign.arm.gov/tcap/). The evaluation includes calculating the root mean square error (RMSE) between the aerosol characteristics retrieved by our approach, and the same quantities calculated using the conventional volume mixing rule for chemical constituents. For dry conditions (defined in this work as relative humidity less than 55 %) and sub-micron particles, a very good (RMSE similar to 3 %) and reasonable (RMSE similar to 28 %) agreement is obtained for the retrieved real refractive index (1.49 +/- 0.02) and effective density (1.68 +/- 0.21), respectively. Our approach permits discrimination between the retrieved aerosol characteristics of sub-micron and sub-10-micron particles. The evaluation results also reveal that the retrieved density and refractive index tend to decrease with an increase of the relative humidity.
We present a framework for calculating the total scattering of both non-absorbing and absorbing aerosol at ambient conditions from aircraft data. Our framework is developed emphasizing the explicit use of chemical composition data for estimating the complex refractive index (RI) of particles, and thus obtaining improved ambient size spectra derived from Optical Particle Counter (OPC) measurements. The feasibility of our framework for improved calculations of total scattering is demonstrated using three types of data collected by the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) aircraft during the Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP). Namely, these data types are: (1) size distributions measured by a suite of OPC's; (2) chemical composition data measured by an Aerosol Mass Spectrometer and a Single Particle Soot Photometer; and (3) the dry total scattering coefficient measured by a integrating nephelometer and scattering enhancement factor measured with a humidification system. We demonstrate that good agreement (similar to 10%) between the observed and calculated scattering can be obtained under ambient conditions (RH < 80%) by applying chemical composition data for the RI-based correction of the OPC-derived size spectra. We also demonstrate that ignoring the RI-based correction or using non-representative RI values can cause a substantial underestimation (similar to 40%) or overestimation (similar to 35%) of the calculated scattering, respectively.
We use combined multi-year measurements from the surface and space for assessing the spatial and temporal distribution of aerosol properties within a large (~400400 km) region centered on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, along the East Coast of the United States. The ground-based Aerosol Robotic Network (AERONET) measurements at Martha's Vineyard Coastal Observatory (MVCO) site and Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MODIS) sensors on board the Terra and Aqua satellites provide horizontal and temporal variations of aerosol optical depth, while the CloudAerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) offers the altitudes of aerosol-layers. The combined ground-based and satellite measurements indicated several interesting features among which were the large differences in the aerosol properties observed in July and February. We applied the climatology of aerosol properties for designing the Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP), which is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program. The TCAP field campaign involves 12-month deployment (started July 1, 2012) of the ground-based ARM Mobile Facility (AMF) and Mobile Aerosol Observing System (MAOS) on Cape Cod and complimentary aerosol observations from two research aircraft: the DOE Gulfstream-1 (G-1) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) B200 King Air. Using results from the coordinated G-1 and B200 flights during the recent (July, 2012) Intensive Observation Period, we demonstrated that the G-1 in situ measurements and B200 active remote sensing can provide complementary information on the temporal and spatial changes of the aerosol properties off the coast of North America.
Well-known cloud-screening algorithms, which are designed to remove cloud-contaminated aerosol optical depths (AOD) from Multifilter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR) and Normal Incidence Multifilter Radiometer (NIMFR) measurements, have exhibited excellent performance at many middle-to-low latitude sites around world. However, they may occasionally fail under challenging observational conditions, such as when the sun is low (near the horizon) and when optically thin clouds with small spatial inhomogeneity occur. Such conditions have been observed quite frequently at the high-latitude Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) North Slope of Alaska (NSA) sites. A slightly modified cloud-screening version of the standard algorithm is proposed here with a focus on the ARM-supported MFRSR and NIMFR data. The modified version uses approximately the same techniques as the standard algorithm, but it additionally examines the magnitude of the slant-path line of sight transmittance and eliminates points when the observed magnitude is below a specified threshold. Substantial improvement of the multi-year (1999-2012) aerosol product (AOD and its Angstrom exponent) is shown for the NSA sites when the modified version is applied. Moreover, this version reproduces the AOD product at the ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site, which was originally generated by the standard cloud-screening algorithms. The proposed minor modification is easy to implement and its application to existing and future cloud-screening algorithms can be particularly beneficial for challenging observational conditions.
The Spectrometer for Sky-Scanning, Sun-Tracking Atmospheric Research (4STAR) being developed for airborne measurements will offer retrievals of aerosol microphysical and optical properties from multi-angular and multi-spectral measurements of sky radiance and direct-beam sun transmittance. In this study, we assess the expected accuracy of the 4STAR-based aerosol retrieval and its sensitivity to major sources of anticipated perturbations in the 4STAR measurements. The major anticipated perturbations are (1) an apparent enhancement of sky radiance at small scattering angles associated with the necessarily compact design of the 4STAR and (2) an offset (i.e., uncertainty) of sky radiance calibration independent of scattering angle. The assessment is performed through application of the operational AERONET aerosol retrieval and constructed synthetic 4STAR-like data. Particular attention is given to the impact of these perturbations on the broadband fluxes and the direct aerosol radiative forcing. The results from this study suggest that limitations in the accuracy of 4STAR-retrieved particle size distributions and scattering phase functions have diminished impact on the accuracy of retrieved bulk microphysical parameters, permitting quite accurate retrievals of properties including the effective radius (up to 10%, or 0.03), and the radiatively important optical properties, such as the asymmetry factor (up to 4%, or +/- 0.02) and single-scattering albedo (up to 6%, or +/- 0.04). Also, the obtained results indicate that the uncertainties in the retrieved aerosol optical properties are quite small in the context of the calculated fluxes and direct aerosol radiative forcing (up to 15%, or 3 W.m(-2)).
The majority of previous studies dealing with effect of coarse mode aerosols (supermicron) on the radiation budget have focused primarily on regions where total aerosol loadings are substantial. We reexamine this effect for a relatively clean area using a unique 1-month dataset collected during the recent Carbonaceous Aerosol and Radiative Effects Study (CARES, June 2010) in the central California region near Sacramento. Here we define "clean" as aerosol optical depths less than 0.1 at 0.5 mu m. We demonstrate that coarse mode particles contributed substantially (more than 50%) and frequently (up to 85% of time) to the total aerosol volume during this study. In contrast to conventional expectations that the radiative impact of coarse mode aerosols should be small for clean regions, we find that neglecting large particles may lead to significant overestimation, up to 45%, of direct aerosol radiative forcing despite very small aerosol optical depths. Our findings highlight the potential for substantial impacts of coarse mode aerosols on radiative properties over clean areas and the need for more explicit inclusion of coarse mode aerosols in climate-related observational studies. Citation: Kassianov, E., M. Pekour, and J. Barnard (2012), Aerosols in central California: Unexpectedly large contribution of coarse mode to aerosol radiative forcing, Geophys. Res. Lett., 39, L20806, doi:10.1029/2012GL053469.
Arctic mixed-phase stratocumulus clouds are maintained by feedbacks between microphysical and dynamical phenomena, but the details of these interactions are incompletely understood. Although large-eddy simulations are a promising means of elucidating microphysics-turbulence relationships, the use of sophisticated microphysical schemes complicates analysis of their results. Here, the ability of a simplified one-moment scheme to capture basic features of this cloud type is investigated through simulations based on Mixed-Phase Arctic Cloud Experiment (MPACE), SHEBA/FIRE-ACE, and Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) intercomparison studies. The results of the simple scheme show reasonable agreement with liquid and ice water path predictions reported by models using schemes of similar or greater complexity. Additional tests are performed to evaluate the sensitivity of the results to three main parameters of the scheme: the snow and ice size distribution intercept parameters and the exponent appearing in the temperature-dependent phase-partition function, which is used to diagnose cloud condensate amounts. Sensitivities of the SHEBAand ISDAC cases, both of which have low surface heat fluxes and low precipitation rates, tend to be similar, while the MPACE case, with higher surface fluxes and precipitation rates, shows somewhat different trends. Results of all three cases are found to be sensitive to the snow size distribution intercept parameter, but this quantity can be adequately estimated using a recently developed diagnostic expression based on observations of Arctic clouds. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program Southern Great Plains (SGP) site has a rich history of actively sensed cloud observations. Fourteen years (1997-2010) of observations from the Millimeter Cloud Radar (MMCR), Micropulse Lidar (MPL), and Belfort/Vaisala Ceilometers are used to understand how instrument selection and sampling impacts estimates of Cloud Fraction (CF) at this location. Although all instruments should be used in combination for the best estimates of CF, instrument downtime limits available samples and increases observational errors, demanding that users make sacrifices when calculating CF at longer intervals relevant to climate studies. Selection of MMCR or MMCR + MPL cloud masks changes very little in the overall understanding of total CF. Addition of the MPL increases the 14-year average CF by 9 %, mainly through an increase in optically thin high clouds year-round, and mid-level clouds during the summer months. Splitting the period into two equal 7-year periods reveals negligible change in MMCR + MPL CF. For the MMCR, however, CF deceases by 6.1 %. This sudden change in CF occurs around the time the radar was upgraded, suggesting that this decrease is tied to hardware sensitivity or scanning strategy changes. Users must be cognizant of this and other issues when calculating CF from the variety of observations available at the ARM SGP site.
Instrument downtime leads to uncertainty in the monthly and annual record of cloud fraction (CF), making it difficult to perform time series analyses of cloud properties and perform detailed evaluations of model simulations. As cloud occurrence is partially controlled by the large-scale atmospheric environment, this knowledge is used to reduce uncertainties in the instrument record. Synoptic patterns diagnosed from the North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR) during the period 1997-2010 are classified using a competitive neural network known as the self-organizing map (SOM). The classified synoptic states are then compared to the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) instrument record to determine the expected CF. A number of SOMs are tested to understand how the number of classes and the period of classifications impact the relationship between classified states and CFs. Bootstrapping is utilized to quantify the uncertainty of the instrument record when statistical information from the SOM is included. Although all SOMs significantly reduce the uncertainty of the CF record calculated in Kennedy et al. (Theor Appl Climatol 115:91-105, 2014), SOMs with a large number of classes and separated by month are required to produce the lowest uncertainty and best agreement with the annual cycle of CF. This result may be due to a manifestation of seasonally dependent biases in NARR. With use of the SOMs, the average uncertainty in monthly CF is reduced in half from the values calculated in Kennedy et al. (Theor Appl Climatol 115:91-105, 2014).
The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program Southern Great Plains (SGP) site has a rich history of actively sensed cloud observations. Fourteen years (1997-2010) of observations from the Millimeter Cloud Radar (MMCR), Micropulse Lidar (MPL), and Belfort/Vaisala Ceilometers are used to understand how instrument selection and sampling impacts estimates of Cloud Fraction (CF) at this location. Although all instruments should be used in combination for the best estimates of CF, instrument downtime limits available samples and increases observational errors, demanding that users make sacrifices when calculating CF at longer intervals relevant to climate studies. Selection of MMCR or MMCR + MPL cloud masks changes very little in the overall understanding of total CF. Addition of the MPL increases the 14-year average CF by 9 %, mainly through an increase in optically thin high clouds year-round, and mid-level clouds during the summer months. Splitting the period into two equal 7-year periods reveals negligible change in MMCR + MPL CF. For the MMCR, however, CF deceases by 6.1 %. This sudden change in CF occurs around the time the radar was upgraded, suggesting that this decrease is tied to hardware sensitivity or scanning strategy changes. Users must be cognizant of this and other issues when calculating CF from the variety of observations available at the ARM SGP site.
Atmospheric states from the Modern-Era Retrospective analysis for Research and Applications (MERRA) and the North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR) are compared with data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site, including the ARM continuous forcing product and Cloud Modeling Best Estimate (CMBE) soundings, during the period 1999-2001 to understand their validity for single-column model (SCM) and cloud-resolving model (CRM) forcing datasets. Cloud fraction, precipitation, and radiation information are also compared to determine what errors exist within these reanalyses. For the atmospheric state, ARM continuous forcing and the reanalyses have good agreement with the CMBE sounding information, with biases generally within 0.5 K for temperature, 0.5 m s-1 for wind, and 5% for relative humidity. Larger disagreements occur in the upper troposphere (p 300 hPa) for temperature, humidity, and zonal wind, and in the boundary layer (p 800 hPa) for meridional wind and humidity. In these regions, larger errors may exist in derived forcing products. Significant differences exist for vertical pressure velocity, with the largest biases occurring during the spring upwelling and summer downwelling periods. Although NARR and MERRA share many resemblances to each other, ARM outperforms these reanalyses in terms of correlation with cloud fraction. Because the ARM forcing is constrained by observed precipitation that gives the adequate mass, heat, and moisture budgets, much of the precipitation (specifically during the late spring/early summer) is caused by smaller-scale forcing that is not captured by the reanalyses. While reanalysis-based forcing appears to be feasible for the majority of the year at this location, it may have limited usage during the late spring and early summer, when convection is common at the ARM SGP site. Both NARR and MERRA capture the seasonal variation of cloud fractions (CFs) observed by ARM radar-lidar and Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) with high correlations (0.92-0.78) but with negative biases of 14% and 3%, respectively. Compared to the ARM observations, MERRA shows better agreement for both shortwave (SW) and longwave (LW) fluxes except for LW-down (due to a negative bias in water vapor): NARR has significant positive bias for SW-down and negative bias for LW-down under clear-sky and all-sky conditions. The NARR biases result from a combination of too few clouds and a lack of sufficient extinction by aerosols and water vapor in the atmospheric column. The results presented here represent only one location for a limited period, and more comparisons at different locations and longer periods are needed.
Changes in atmospheric CO2 variability during the twenty-first century may provide insight about ecosystem responses to climate change and have implications for the design of carbon monitoring programs. This paper describes changes in the three-dimensional structure of atmospheric CO2 for several representative concentration pathways (RCPs 4.5 and 8.5) using the Community Earth System Model-Biogeochemistry (CESM1-BGC). CO2 simulated for the historical period was first compared to surface, aircraft, and column observations. In a second step, the evolution of spatial and temporal gradients during the twenty-first century was examined. The mean annual cycle in atmospheric CO2 was underestimated for the historical period throughout the Northern Hemisphere, suggesting that the growing season net flux in the Community Land Model (the land component of CESM) was too weak. Consistent with weak summer drawdown in Northern Hemisphere high latitudes, simulated CO2 showed correspondingly weak north-south and vertical gradients during the summer. In the simulations of the twenty-first century, CESM predicted increases in the mean annual cycle of atmospheric CO2 and larger horizontal gradients. Not only did the mean north-south gradient increase due to fossil fuel emissions, but east-west contrasts in CO2 also strengthened because of changing patterns in fossil fuel emissions and terrestrial carbon exchange. In the RCP8.5 simulation, where CO2 increased to 1150 ppm by 2100, the CESM predicted increases in interannual variability in the Northern Hemisphere midlatitudes of up to 60% relative to present variability for time series filtered with a 2-10-yr bandpass. Such an increase in variability may impact detection of changing surface fluxes from atmospheric observations.
A new analytical parameterization of homogeneous ice nucleation is developed based on extended classical nucleation theory including new equations for the critical radii of the ice germs, free energies and nucleation rates as simultaneous functions of temperature and water saturation ratio. By representing these quantities as separable products of the analytical functions of temperature and supersaturation, analytical solutions are found for the integral-differential supersaturation equation and concentration of nucleated crystals. Parcel model simulations are used to illustrate the general behavior of various nucleation properties under various conditions, for justifications of the further key analytical sim-plifications, and for verification of the resulting parameterization. The final parameterization is based upon the values of the supersaturation that determines the current or maximum concentrations of the nucleated ice crystals. The crystal concentration is analytically expressed as a function of time and can be used for parameterization of homogeneous ice nucleation both in the models with small time steps and for substep parameterization in the models with large time steps. The crystal concentration is expressed analytically via the error functions or elementary functions and depends only on the fundamental atmospheric parameters and parameters of classical nucleation theory. The diffusion and kinetic limits of the new parameterization agree with previous semi-empirical parameterizations.
Surface air temperature, precipitation, and insolation over the conterminous United States region from the North American Regional Climate Change Assessment Program (NARCCAP) regional climate model (RCM) hindcast study are evaluated using the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) Regional Climate Model Evaluation System (RCMES). All RCMs reasonably simulate the observed climatology of these variables. RCM skill varies more widely for the magnitude of spatial variability than the pattern. The multimodel ensemble is among the best performers for all these variables. Systematic biases occur across these RCMs for the annual means, with warm biases over the Great Plains (GP) and cold biases in the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico (GM) coastal regions. Wet biases in the Pacific Northwest and dry biases in the GM/southern Great Plains also occur in most RCMs. All RCMs suffer problems in simulating summer rainfall in the Arizona-New Mexico region. RCMs generally overestimate surface insolation, especially in the eastern United States. Negative correlation between the biases in insolation and precipitation suggest that these two fields are related, likely via clouds. Systematic variations in biases for regions, seasons, variables, and metrics suggest that the bias correction in applying climate model data to assess the climate impact on various sectors must be performed accordingly. Precipitation evaluation with multiple observations reveals that observational data can be an important source of uncertainties in model evaluation; thus, cross examination of observational data is important for model evaluation.
Various aerosol and cloud microphysical properties have been compared and examined for several years using ground-based remote sensing data from Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM), which showed that the clouds with strong above-cloud inversions are more immune to variations in the meteorological environment and the associated aerosol-cloud interactions appear to be more dominant in nearly adiabatic clouds by comparing different environmental conditions. Meanwhile, MODIS (Moderate-Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer) and NCEP/NCAR (National Centers for Environmental Prediction/National Center for Atmospheric Research) reanalysis data from 2001 to 2008 have been analysed to understand long-term aerosol and cloud optical properties, and their relationships in East Asia. Specifically only relationships between aerosol optical depth (AOD) and cloud fraction (CF) for the low-level liquid-phase clouds exhibit the overall positive correlation, being consistent with cloud lifetime effect. The results imply that ground-based remote sensing is probably better for the study of aerosol-cloud microphysical interactions, whereas satellite remote sensing is more appropriate for the study of aerosol and cloud macroscopic interactions.
This paper describes the All Sky Infrared Visible Analyzer (ASIVA), a multi-purpose visible and infrared sky imaging and analysis instrument whose primary function is to provide radiometrically calibrated imagery in the mid-infrared (mid-IR) atmospheric window. This functionality enables the determination of diurnal fractional sky cover and estimates of sky/cloud temperature from which one can derive estimates of sky/cloud emissivity and cloud height. This paper describes the calibration methods and performance of the ASIVA instrument with particular emphasis on data products being developed for the meteorological community. Data presented here were collected during the Solmirus' ASIVA campaign conducted at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) Climate Research Facility from 21 May to 27 July 2009. The purpose of this campaign was to determine the efficacy of IR technology in providing reliable nighttime sky cover data. Significant progress has been made in the analysis of the campaign data over the past several years and the ASIVA has proven to be an excellent instrument for determining sky cover as well as the potential for determining sky/cloud temperature, sky/cloud emissivity, precipitable water vapor (PWV), and ultimately cloud height.
This paper presents an overview of the Lower Atmospheric Boundary Layer Experiment (LABLE), which included two measurement campaigns conducted at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program Southern Great Plains site in Oklahoma during 2012 and 2013. LABLE was conducted as a collaborative effort between the University of Oklahoma (OU), the National Severe Storms Laboratory, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), and the ARM program. LABLE can be considered unique in that it was designed as a multiphase, low-cost, multiagency collaboration. Graduate students served as principal investigators and took the lead in designing and conducting experiments aimed at examining boundary layer processes.The main objective of LABLE was to study turbulent phenomena in the lowest 2 km of the atmosphere over heterogeneous terrain using a variety of novel atmospheric profiling techniques. Several instruments from OU and LLNL were deployed to augment the suite of in situ and remote sensing instruments at the ARM site. The complementary nature of the deployed instruments with respect to resolution and height coverage provides a near-complete picture of the dynamic and thermodynamic structure of the atmospheric boundary layer. This paper provides an overview of the experiment including 1) instruments deployed, 2) sampling strategies, 3) parameters observed, and 4) student involvement. To illustrate these components, the presented results focus on one particular aspect of LABLE: namely, the study of the nocturnal boundary layer and the formation and structure of nocturnal low-level jets. During LABLE, low-level jets were frequently observed and they often interacted with mesoscale atmospheric disturbances such as frontal passages.
The potential of multifrequency Doppler spectra to constrain precipitation microphysics has so far only been exploited for dual-frequency spectra in rain. In this study, we extend the dual-frequency concept to triple-frequency Doppler radar spectra obtained during a snowfall event which included rimed and unrimed snow aggregates. A large selection of spectra obtained from low-turbulence regions within the cloud reveals distinctly different signatures of the derived dual spectral ratios. Due to the third frequency, a characteristic curve can be derived which is almost independent of the underlying particle size distribution and velocity-size relation. This approach provides new opportunities for validating existing and future snow scattering models and reveals how the information content of triple-frequency radar data sets can be further exploited for snowfall studies.
Microwave radiometers (MWR) are commonly used to quantify the amount of supercooled liquid water (SLW) in clouds; however, the accuracy of the SLW retrievals is limited by the poor knowledge of the SLW dielectric properties at microwave frequencies. Six liquid water permittivity models were compared with ground-based MWR observations between 31 and 225 GHz from sites in Greenland, the German Alps, and a low-mountain site; average cloud temperatures of observed thin cloud layers range from 0 degrees to -33 degrees C. A recently published method to derive ratios of liquid water opacity from different frequencies was employed in this analysis. These ratios are independent of liquid water path and equal to the ratio of alpha(L) at those frequencies that can be directly compared with the permittivity model predictions. The observed opacity ratios from all sites show highly consistent results that are generally within the range of model predictions; however, none of the models are able to approximate the observations over the entire frequency and temperature range. Findings in earlier published studies were used to select one specific model as a reference model for alpha(L) at 90 GHz; together with the observed opacity ratios, the temperature dependence of alpha(L) at 31.4, 52.28, 150, and 225 GHz was derived. The results reveal that two models fit the opacity ratio data better than the other four models, with one of the two models fitting the data better for frequencies below 90 GHz and the other for higher frequencies. These findings are relevant for SLW retrievals and radiative transfer in the 31-225-GHz frequency region.
The effect of anthropogenic and biogenic organic particles on atmospheric glaciation processes is poorly understood. We use an optical microscopy setup to identify the ice nuclei (IN) active in immersion freezing (IMF) and deposition ice nucleation within a large population of particles collected on a substrate from an ambient environment in central California dominated by urban and marine aerosols. Multimodal microspectroscopy methods are applied to characterize the physicochemical properties and mixing state of the individual IN and particle populations to identify particle-type classes. The temperature onsets of water uptake occurred between 235 and 257 K at subsaturated conditions, and the onsets of IMF proceeded at subsaturated and saturated conditions for 235-247 K, relevant for ice nucleation in mixed-phase clouds. Particles also took up water and nucleated ice between 226 and 235 K and acted as deposition IN with onset temperatures below 226 K, a temperature range relevant to cirrus cloud formation. The identified IN belong to the most common particle-type classes observed in the field samples: organic coated sea salt and Na-rich, secondary, and refractory carbonaceous particles. Based on these observations, we suggest that the IN are not always particles with unique chemical composition and exceptional ice nucleation propensity; rather, they are common particles in the ambient particle population. The results suggest that particle-type abundance and total particle surface area are also crucial factors, in addition to particle-type ice nucleation efficiency, in determining ice formation within the particle population.
This study focuses on the radiative impacts of dust on the thermodynamics and dynamics of a major Saharan dust-storm that occurred between 7 and 15 March 2006. The implementation of a dust module within the convective-scale operational model AROME permitted a 10-day simulation at high resolution (5 km) over a large domain (6.5-30N; 3W-33E). The model is able to represent most of the life cycle of this dust-storm and of the principal dust sources. According to the comparison with a complete and comprehensive set of measurements obtained within the framework of the AMMA field campaign in 2006, the simulation succeeds in representing the main thermodynamic and radiative features of the storm both qualitatively and quantitatively. As compared with a simulation without the dust, the coupling with the dust module provides signatures of the storm that are in better agreement with radiation and temperature observations. The intense heating in the core of the dust plume (more than 2C) resulted in a large vertical dipole of potential vorticity anomaly with higher values at low levels and weaker values at mid levels, either in the lower and the upper part of the dust plume respectively. This shows that the coupling with dust reinforces the intensity of the cold extratropical outbreak with more ascent at the cold front, more cyclonic convergence near the surface, and more anticyclonic divergence aloft. Also, the subsidence is increased at the rear of the outbreak with more northerly winds. A major result is the acceleration of the easterly along-front flow (~3 m s-1) at low levels and in the African Easterly Jet, increasing the emission of dust and its westward long-range transport. Copyright 2011 Royal Meteorological Society.
The acquisition of scanning cloud radars by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program and research institutions around the world generates the need for developing operational scan strategies for cloud radars. Here, the first generation of sampling strategies for the scanning ARM cloud radars (SACRs) is presented. These scan strategies are designed to address the scientific objectives of ARM; however, they introduce an initial framework for operational scanning cloud radars. While the weather community uses scan strategies that are based on a sequence of scans at constant elevations, the SACR scan strategies are based on a sequence of scans at constant azimuth. This is attributed to the cloud geometrical properties, which are vastly different from the rain and snow shafts that are the primary targets of precipitation radars; the need to cover the cone of silence; and the scanning limitations of the SACRs. A cloud surveillancescan strategy is introduced that is based on a sequence of horizon-to-horizon range-height indicator (RHI) scans that sample the hemispherical sky (HS) every 300 azimuth (HSRHI). The HSRHI scan strategy is complimented with a lowelevation plan position indicator (PPI) scan. The HSRHI and PPI are repeated every 30 min to provide a static view of the cloud conditions around the SACR location. Between the HSRHI and PPI scan strategies, other scan strategies are introduced depending on the cloud conditions. In the future, information about the atmospheric cloud state will be used in a closed-loop process to optimize the selection of the SACR scan strategy.
The acquisition of scanning cloud radars by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program and research institutions around the world generates the need for developing operational scan strategies for cloud radars. Here, the first generation of sampling strategies for the scanning ARM cloud radars (SACRs) is presented. These scan strategies are designed to address the scientific objectives of ARM; however, they introduce an initial framework for operational scanning cloud radars. While the weather community uses scan strategies that are based on a sequence of scans at constant elevations, the SACR scan strategies are based on a sequence of scans at constant azimuth. This is attributed to the cloud geometrical properties, which are vastly different from the rain and snow shafts that are the primary targets of precipitation radars; the need to cover the cone of silence; and the scanning limitations of the SACRs. A "cloud surveillance" scan strategy is introduced that is based on a sequence of horizon-to-horizon range-height indicator (RHI) scans that sample the hemispherical sky (HS) every 30 azimuth (HSRHI). The HSRHI scan strategy is complimented with a lowelevation plan position indicator (PPI) scan. The HSRHI and PPI are repeated every 30min to provide a static view of the cloud conditions around the SACRlocation. Between theHSRHI and PPI scan strategies, other scan strategies are introduced depending on the cloud conditions. In the future, information about the atmospheric cloud state will be used in a closed-loop process to optimize the selection of the SACR scan strategy. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
The scanning Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program cloud radars (SACRs) are the primary instruments for documenting the four-dimensional structure and evolution of clouds within a 20-30-km radius of the ARM fixed and mobile sites. Here, the postprocessing of the calibrated SACR measurements is discussed. First, a feature mask algorithm that objectively determines the presence of significant radar returns is described. The feature mask algorithm is based on the statistical properties of radar receiver noise. It accounts for atmospheric emission and is applicable even for SACR profiles with few or no signal-free range gates. Using the nearest-in-time atmospheric sounding, the SACR radar reflectivities are corrected for gaseous attenuation (water vapor and oxygen) using a line-by-line absorption model. Despite having a high pulse repetition frequency, the SACR has a narrow Nyquist velocity limit and thus Doppler velocity folding is commonly observed. An unfolding algorithm that makes use of a first guess for the true Doppler velocity using horizontal wind measurements from the nearest sounding is described. The retrieval of the horizontal wind profile from the hemispherical sky range-height indicator SACR scan observations and/or nearest sounding is described. The retrieved horizontal wind profile can be used to adaptively configure SACR scan strategies that depend on wind direction. Several remaining challenges are discussed, including the removal of insect and second-trip echoes. The described algorithms significantly enhance SACR data quality and constitute an important step toward the utilization of SACR measurements for cloud research.
The scanning Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program cloud radars (SACRs) are the primary instruments for documenting the four-dimensional structure and evolution of clouds within a 20-30-km radius of the ARM fixed and mobile sites. Here, the postprocessing of the calibrated SACR measurements is discussed. First, a feature mask algorithm that objectively determines the presence of significant radar returns is described. The feature mask algorithm is based on the statistical properties of radar receiver noise. It accounts for atmospheric emission and is applicable even for SACR profiles with few or no signal-free range gates. Using the nearest-in-time atmospheric sounding, the SACR radar reflectivities are corrected for gaseous attenuation (water vapor and oxygen) using a line-by-line absorption model. Despite having a high pulse repetition frequency, the SACR has a narrow Nyquist velocity limit and thus Doppler velocity folding is commonly observed.An unfolding algorithm that makes use of a first guess for the true Doppler velocity using horizontal wind measurements from the nearest sounding is described. The retrieval of the horizontal wind profile from the hemispherical sky range-height indicator SACR scan observations and/or nearest sounding is described. The retrieved horizontal wind profile can be used to adaptively configure SACR scan strategies that depend on wind direction. Several remaining challenges are discussed, including the removal of insect and second-trip echoes. The described algorithms significantly enhance SACR data quality and constitute an important step toward the utilization of SACR measurements for cloud research. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
Several aspects of spectral broadening and drizzle growth in shallow liquid clouds remain not well understood. Detailed, cloud-scale observations of microphysics and dynamics are essential to guide and evaluate corresponding modeling efforts. Profiling, millimeter-wavelength (cloud) radars can provide such observations. In particular, the first three moments of the recorded cloud radar Doppler spectra, the radar reflectivity, mean Doppler velocity, and spectrum width, are often used to retrieve cloud microphysical and dynamical properties. Such retrievals are subject to errors introduced by the assumptions made in the inversion process. Here, we introduce two additional morphological parameters of the radar Doppler spectrum, the skewness and kurtosis, in an effort to reduce the retrieval uncertainties. A forward model that emulates observed radar Doppler spectra is constructed and used to investigate these relationships. General, analytical relationships that relate the five radar observables to cloud and drizzle microphysical parameters and cloud turbulence are presented. The relationships are valid for cloud-only, cloud mixed with drizzle, and drizzle-only particles in the radar sampling volume and provide a seamless link between observations and cloud microphysics and dynamics. The sensitivity of the five observed parameters to the radar operational parameters such as signal-to-noise ratio and Doppler spectra velocity resolution are presented. The predicted values of the five observed radar parameters agree well with the output of the forward model. The novel use of the skewness of the radar Doppler spectrum as an early qualitative predictor of drizzle onset in clouds is introduced. It is found that skewness is a parameter very sensitive to early drizzle generation. In addition, the significance of the five parameters of the cloud radar Doppler spectrum for constraining drizzle microphysical retrievals is discussed.
In part I, the influence of cloud microphysics and dynamics on the shape of cloud radar Doppler spectra in warm stratiform clouds was discussed. The traditional analysis of radar Doppler moments was extended to include skewness and kurtosis as additional descriptors of the Doppler spectrum. Here, a short climatology of observed Doppler spectra moments as a function of the radar reflectivity at continental and maritime ARM sites is presented. The evolution of the Doppler spectra moments is consistent with the onset and growth of drizzle particles and can be used to assist modeling studies of drizzle onset and growth. Time-height radar observations are used to exhibit the coherency of the Doppler spectra shape parameters and demonstrate their potential to improve the interpretation and use of radar observations. In addition, a simplified microphysical approach to modeling the vertical evolution of the drizzle particle size distribution in warm stratiform clouds is described and used to analyze the observations. The formation rate of embryonic drizzle droplets due to the autoconversion process is not calculated explicitly; however, accretion and evaporation processes are explicitly modeled. The microphysical model is used as input to a radar Doppler spectrum forward model, and synthetic radar Doppler spectra moments are generated. Three areas of interest are studied in detail: early drizzle growth near the cloud top, growth by accretion of the well-developed drizzle, and drizzle depletion below the cloud base due to evaporation. The modeling results are in good agreement with the continental and maritime observations. This demonstrates that steady state one-dimensional explicit microphysical models coupled with a forward model and comprehensive radar Doppler spectra observations offer a powerful method to explore the vertical evolution of the drizzle particle size distribution.
A study has been carried out to assess the importance of radiosonde corrections in improving the agreement between satellite and radiosonde measurements of upper-tropospheric humidity. Infrared [High Resolution Infrared Radiation Sounder (HIRS)-12] and microwave [Advanced Microwave Sounding Unit (AMSU)-18] measurements from the NOAA-17 satellite were used for this purpose. The agreement was assessed by comparing the satellite measurements against simulated measurements using collocated radiosonde profiles of the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program undertaken at tropical and midlatitude sites. The Atmospheric Radiative Transfer Simulator (ARTS) was used to simulate the satellite radiances. The comparisons have been done under clear-sky conditions, separately for daytime and nighttime soundings. Only Vaisala RS92 radiosonde sensors were used and an empirical correction (EC) was applied to the radiosonde measurements. The EC includes correction for mean calibration bias and for solar radiation error, and it removes radiosonde bias relative to three instruments of known accuracy. For the nighttime dataset, the EC significantly reduces the bias from 0.63 to -0.10 Kin AMSU-18 and from 1.26 to 0.35 Kin HIRS-12.The EC has an even greater impact on the daytime dataset with a bias reduction from 2.38 to 0.28 K in AMSU-18 and from 2.51 to 0.59 K in HIRS-12. The present study promises a more accurate approach in future radiosondebased studies in the upper troposphere.
Monitoring the global distribution and long-term variations of CO2 sources and sinks is required for characterizing the global carbon budget. Total column measurements are useful for estimating regional-scale fluxes; however, model transport remains a significant error source, particularly for quantifying local sources and sinks. To improve the capability of estimating regional fluxes, we estimate lower tropospheric CO2 concentrations from ground-based near-infrared (NIR) measurements with space-based thermal infrared (TIR) measurements. The NIR measurements are obtained from the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON) of solar measurements, which provide an estimate of the total CO2 column amount. Estimates of tropospheric CO2 that are co-located with TCCON are obtained by assimilating Tropospheric Emission Spectrometer (TES) free tropospheric CO2 estimates into the GEOS-Chem model. We find that quantifying lower tropospheric CO2 by subtracting free tropospheric CO2 estimates from total column estimates is a linear problem, because the calculated random uncertainties in total column and lower tropospheric estimates are consistent with actual uncertainties as compared to aircraft data. For the total column estimates, the random uncertainty is about 0.55 ppm with a bias of -5.66 ppm, consistent with previously published results. After accounting for the total column bias, the bias in the lower tropospheric CO2 estimates is 0.26 ppm with a precision (one standard deviation) of 1.02 ppm. This precision is sufficient for capturing the winter to summer variability of approximately 12 ppm in the lower troposphere; double the variability of the total column. This work shows that a combination of NIR and TIR measurements can profile CO2 with the precision and accuracy needed to quantify lower tropospheric CO2 variability.
Thermal infrared radiances from the Troposheric Emission Spectrometer (TES) between 10 and 15 mu m contain significant carbon dioxide (CO2) information, however the CO2 signal must be separated from radiative interference from temperature, surface and cloud parameters, water, and other trace gases. Validation requires data sources spanning the range of TES CO2 sensitivity, which is approximately 2.5 to 12 km with peak sensitivity at about 5 km and the range of TES observations in latitude (40 degrees S to 40 degrees N) and time (2005-2011). We therefore characterize Tropospheric Emission Spectrometer (TES) CO2 version 5 biases and errors through comparisons to ocean and land-based aircraft profiles and to the Carbon Tracker assimilation system. We compare to ocean profiles from the first three Hiaper Pole-to-Pole Observations (HIPPO) campaigns between 40 degrees S and 40 degrees N with measurements between the surface and 14 km and find that TES CO2 estimates capture the seasonal and latitudinal gradients observed by HIPPO CO2 measurements. Actual errors range from 0.8-1.8 ppm, depending on the campaign and pressure level, and are approximately 1.6-2 times larger than the predicted errors. The bias of TES versus HIPPO is within 1 ppm for all pressures and datasets; however, several of the sub-tropical TES CO2 estimates are lower than expected based on the calculated errors. Comparisons to land aircraft profiles from the United States Southern Great Plains (SGP) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) between 2005 and 2011 measured form the surface to 5 km to TES CO2 show good agreement with an overall bias of -0.3 ppm to 0.1 ppm and standard deviations of 0.8 to 1.0 ppm at different pressure levels. Extending the SGP aircraft profiles above 5 km using AIRS or CONTRAIL measurements improves comparisons with TES. Comparisons to CarbonTracker (version CT2011) show a persistent spatially dependent bias pattern and comparisons to SGP show a time-dependent bias -0.2 ppm yr(-1). We also find that the predicted sensitivity of the TES CO2 estimates is too high, which results from using a multi-step retrieval for CO2 and temperature. We find that the averaging kernel in the TES product corrected by a pressure-dependent factor accurately reflects the sensitivity of the TES CO2 product.
The impact of 8-day-averaged data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor-namely, the 1-km leaf area index, absorbed photosynthetic radiation, and land-use data-is investigated for use in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model for regional weather prediction. These high-resolution, near-real-time MODIS data are hypothesized to enhance the representation of land-atmosphere interactions and to potentially improve the WRF model forecast skill for temperature, surface moisture, surface fluxes, and soil temperature. To test this hypothesis, the impact of using MODIS-based land surface data on surface energy and water budgets was assessed within the "Noah" land surface model with two different canopy-resistance schemes. An ensemble of six model experiments was conducted using the WRF model for a typical summertime episode over the U.S. southern Great Plains that occurred during the International H2O Project (IHOP_2002) field experiment. The six model experiments were statistically analyzed and showed some degree of improvement in surface latent heat flux and sensible heat flux, as well as surface temperature and moisture, after land use, leaf area index, and green vegetation fraction data were replaced by remotely sensed data. There was also an improvement in the WRF-simulated temperature and boundary layer moisture with MODIS data in comparison with the default U.S. Geological Survey land-use and leaf area index inputs. Overall, analysis suggests that recalibration and improvements to both the input data and the land model help to improve estimation of surface and soil parameters and boundary layer moisture and led to improvement in simulating convection in WRF runs. Incorporating updated land conditions provided the most notable improvements, and the mesoscale model performance could be further enhanced when improved land surface schemes become available.
The impact of 8-day-averaged data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor-namely, the 1-km leaf area index, absorbed photosynthetic radiation, and land-use data-is investigated for use in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model for regional weather prediction. These high-resolution, near-real-time MODIS data are hypothesized to enhance the representation of land- atmosphere interactions and to potentially improve the WRF model forecast skill for temperature, surface moisture, surface fluxes, and soil temperature. To test this hypothesis, the impact of using MODIS-based land surface data on surface energy and water budgets was assessed within the Noah land surface model with two different canopy-resistance schemes. An ensemble of six model experiments was conducted using the WRF model for a typical summertime episode over the U.S. southern Great Plains that occurred during the International H2O Project (IHOP_2002) field experiment. The six model experiments were statistically analyzed and showed some degree of improvement in surface latent heat flux and sensible heat flux, as well as surface temperature and moisture, after land use, leaf area index, and green vegetation fraction data were replaced by remotely sensed data. There was also an improvement in the WRF-simulated temperature and boundary layer moisture with MODIS data in comparison with the default U.S. Geological Survey land-use and leaf area index inputs. Overall, analysis suggests that recalibration and improvements to both the input data and the land model help to improve estimation of surface and soil parameters and boundary layer moisture and led to improvement in simulating convection in WRF runs. Incorporating updated land conditions provided the most notable improvements, and the mesoscale model performance could be further enhanced when improved land surface schemes become available.
There is no objective definition to separate cumulus congestus clouds from the shallow cumulus and deep clouds. This has generated misinterpretation about the role of congestus clouds to promote deep convection through the potential of moistening the middle troposphere. In this study, an objective identification for the different tropical cumulus modes is found by examining the occurrence frequency of the cloud cell top heights (CTHs) and near-ground (at 2.5km height) rainfall properties of these cells using a three-season database of the Darwin C-band polarimetric radar. Four cumulus modes were identified, namely a shallow cumulus mode with CTH in the trade inversion layer (1-3km), a congestus mode with tops in the highly stable middle troposphere (3-6.5km), a deep convective mode with tops in the region of free convection (6.5-15km), and an overshooting convection mode with tops in the tropical tropopause layer (CTH >15km). The study also investigates the connections between these cumulus modes during heavy rainfall events. The congestus mode occurs predominantly from similar to 10h prior to the peak rainfall event to similar to 2h past the event. The deep cloud populations (Modes 3 and 4) have their maxima at and shortly after the time of the rainfall peak, with maximum occurrence just below the tropical tropopause layer. A comparison of the heavy rainfall events occurring in morning (oceanic) conditions against the afternoon (continental) conditions revealed a higher ratio of the shallow to the deep cloud population and a shorter transition time from the shallow to the onset of deep population in the morning-oceanic conditions than the afternoon-land conditions. It is also found through the analysis of the large-scale moisture budget data set that for both the morning and afternoon events, the moistening peaked before the peak in the congestus populations.
Cumulus parameterizations in weather and climate models frequently apply mass-flux schemes in their description of tropical convection. Mass flux constitutes the product of the fractional area covered by convection in a model grid box and the vertical velocity in cumulus clouds. However, vertical velocities are difficult to observe on GCM scales, making the evaluation of mass-flux schemes difficult. Here, the authors combine high-temporal-resolution observations of in-cloud vertical velocities derived from a pair of wind profilers over two wet seasons at Darwin with physical properties of precipitating clouds [cloud-top heights (CTH), convective-stratiform classification] derived from the Darwin C-band polarimetric radar to provide estimates of cumulus mass flux and its constituents. The length of this dataset allows for investigations of the contributions from different cumulus cloud types-namely, congestus, deep, and overshooting convection-to the overall mass flux and of the influence of large-scale conditions on mass flux. The authors found that mass flux was dominated by updrafts and, in particular, the updraft area fraction, with updraft vertical velocity playing a secondary role. The updraft vertical velocities peaked above 10 km where both the updraft area fractions and air densities were small, resulting in a marginal effect on mass-flux values. Downdraft area fractions are much smaller and velocities aremuch weaker than those in updrafts. The area fraction responded strongly to changes in midlevel large-scale vertical motion and convective inhibition (CIN). In contrast, changes in the lower-tropospheric relative humidity and convective available potential energy (CAPE) strongly modulate in-cloud vertical velocities but have moderate impacts on area fractions. Although average mass flux is found to increase with increasing CTH, it is the environmental conditions that seem to dictate the magnitude of mass flux produced by convection through a combination of effects on area fraction and velocity.
Some cumulus clouds with tops between 3 and 7 km (Cu3km-7km) remain in this height region throughout their lifetime (congestus) while others develop into deeper clouds (cumulonimbus). This study describes two techniques to identify the congestus and cumulonimbus cloud types using data from scanning weather radar and identifies the atmospheric conditions that regulate these two modes. A two-wet-season cumulus cloud database of the Darwin C-band polarimetric radar is analyzed and the two modes are identified by examining the 0-dBZ cloud-top height (CTH) of the Cu3km-7km cells over a sequence of radar scans. It is found that similar to 26% of the classified Cu3km-7km population grow into cumulonimbus clouds. The cumulonimbus cells exhibit reflectivities, rain rates, and drop sizes larger than the congestus cells. The occurrence frequency of cumulonimbus cells peak in the afternoon at similar to 1500 local timea few hours after the peak in congestus cells. The analysis of Darwin International Airport radiosonde profiles associated with the two types of cells shows no noticeable difference in the thermal stability rates, but a significant difference in midtropospheric (5-10 km) relative humidity. Moister conditions are found in the hours preceding the cumulonimbus cells when compared with the congestus cells. Using a moisture budget dataset derived for the Darwin region, it is shown that the existence of cumulonimbus cells, and hence deep convection, is mainly determined by the presence of the midtroposphere large-scale upward motion and not merely by the presence of congestus clouds prior to deep convection. This contradicts the thermodynamic viewpoint that the midtroposphere moistening prior to deep convection is solely due to the preceding cumulus congestus cells.
Cumulus parameterizations in general circulation models (GCMs) frequently apply mass-flux schemes in their description of tropical convection. Mass flux constitutes the product of the fractional area covered by cumulus clouds in a model grid box and the vertical velocity within the cumulus clouds. The cumulus area fraction profiles can be derived from precipitating radar reflectivity volumes. However, the vertical velocities are difficult to observe, making the evaluation of mass-flux schemes difficult. In this paper, the authors develop and evaluate a parameterization of vertical velocity in convective (cumulus) clouds using only radar reflectivities collected by a C-band polarimetric research radar (CPOL), operating at Darwin, Australia. The parameterization is trained using vertical velocity retrievals from a dual-frequency wind profiler pair located within the field of view of CPOL. The parametric model uses two inputs derived from CPOL reflectivities: the 0-dBZ echo-top height (0-dBZ ETH) and a height-weighted column reflectivity index (ZHWT). The 0-dBZ ETH determines the shape of the vertical velocity profile, while ZHWT determines its strength. The evaluation of these parameterized vertical velocities using (i) the training dataset, (ii) an independent wind-profiler-based dataset, and (iii) 1 month of dual-Doppler vertical velocity retrievals indicates that the statistical representation of vertical velocity is reasonably accurate up to the 75th percentile. However, the parametric model underestimates the extreme velocities. The method allows for the derivation of cumulus mass flux and its variability on current GCM scales based only on reflectivities from precipitating radar, which could be valuable to modelers.
Lamb, P. J., D. H. Portis and A. Zangvil. (2012). "Investigation of Large-Scale Atmospheric Moisture Budget and Land Surface Interactions over Us Southern Great Plains Including for Clasic (June 2007)." Journal of Hydrometeorology 13(6):1719-1738 DOI: 10.1175/jhm-d-12-01.1     The atmospheric moisture budget and surface interactions for the southern Great Plains are evaluated for contrasting May-June periods (1998, 2002, 2006, and 2007) as background for the Cloud and Land Surface Interaction Campaign (CLASIC) of (wet) 7-30 June 2007. Budget components [flux divergence (MFD), storage change (dPW), and inflow (IF/A)] are estimated from North American Regional Reanalysis data. Precipitation (P) is calculated from NCEP daily gridded data, evapotranspiration (E) is obtained as moisture budget equation residual, and the recycling ratio (P-E/P) is estimated using a new equation. Regional averages are presented for months and five daily P categories. Monthly budget results show that E and E - P are strongly positively related to P; E - P generally is positive and balanced by positive MFD that results from its horizontal velocity divergence component (HD, positive) exceeding its horizontal advection component (HA, negative). An exception is 2007 (CLASIC), when E - P and MFD are negative and supported primarily by negative HA. These overall monthly results characterize low P days (<=.0.6 mm), including for nonanomalous 2007, but weaken as daily P approaches 4 mm. In contrast, for 4 < P <= 8 mm day(-1) E - P and MFD are moderately negative and balanced largely by negative HD except in 2007 (negative HA). This overall pattern was accentuated (including for nonanomalous 2007) when daily P > 8 mm. Daily P-E/P ratios are small and of limited range, with P category averages 0.15-0.19. Ratios for 2007 are above average only for daily P <= 4 mm. CLASIC wetness principally resulted from distinctive MFD characteristics. Solar radiation, soil moisture, and crop status/yield information document surface interactions.
Comprehensive observations of shallow convection at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site are carefully analyzed to study the macrophysical and dynamical properties of active and forced cumuli separately and investigate their relationship to the subcloud layer turbulent structure. Clearly, active clouds possess stronger dynamics and greater horizontal extent than their forced counterpart. As previously reported, upper level stability and relative humidity do control the predominance of active clouds. While cloud cover remains difficult to associate to mixed-layer parameters (small correlation coefficients), mixed-layer top vertical velocity skewness, and coherent updraft fraction most significantly correlate to cumulus cloud cover and especially the portion attributed to active clouds; both of which are not currently considered in shallow cloudiness parameterizations. This study also points to several factors that continue to limit our ability to adequately sample shallow cumuli and suggests that forward models will be necessary to bridge observations and model outputs. Key Points Several factors that limit shallow convection observation over land are described Every hour, forced and active cumuli size and cloud base dynamics are quantified Mixed-layer top velocity skewness and coherent updraft fraction most correlate to cumuli cover 2015. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
The scanning Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) cloud radars (SACRs) provide continuous atmospheric observations aspiring to capture the 3-D cloud-scale structure. Sampling clouds in 3-D is challenging due to their temporal-spatial scales, the need to sample the sky at high elevations and cloud radar limitations. Thus, a suggested scan strategy is to repetitively slice the atmosphere from horizon to horizon as clouds advect over the radar (Cross-Wind Range-Height Indicator - CW-RHI). Here, the processing and gridding of the SACR CW-RHI scans are presented. First, the SACR sample observations from the ARM Southern Great Plains and Cape Cod sites are post-processed (detection mask, gaseous attenuation correction, insect filtering and velocity de-aliasing). The resulting radial Doppler moment fields are then mapped to Cartesian coordinates with time as one of the dimensions. Next the Cartesian-gridded Doppler velocity fields are decomposed into the horizontal wind velocity contribution and the vertical Doppler velocity component. For validation purposes, all gridded and retrieved fields are compared to collocated zenith-pointing ARM cloud radar measurements. We consider that the SACR sensitivity loss with range, the cloud type observed and the research purpose should be considered in determining the gridded domain size. Our results also demonstrate that the gridded SACR observations resolve the main features of low and high stratiform clouds. It is established that the CW-RHI observations complemented with processing techniques could lead to robust 3-D cloud dynamical representations up to 25-30 degrees off zenith. The proposed gridded products are expected to advance our understanding of 3-D cloud morphology, dynamics and anisotropy and lead to more realistic 3-D radiative transfer calculations.
Single-column model (SCM) capability is an important tool for general circulation model development. In this study, the SCM mode of version 5 of the Community Atmosphere Model (CAM5) is shown to handle aerosol initialization and advection improperly, resulting in aerosol, cloud-droplet, and ice crystal concentrations which are typically much lower than observed or simulated by CAM5 in global mode. This deficiency has a major impact on stratiform cloud simulations but has little impact on convective case studies because aerosol is currently not used by CAM5 convective schemes and convective cases are typically longer in duration (so initialization is less important). By imposing fixed aerosol or cloud-droplet and crystal number concentrations, the aerosol issues described above can be avoided. Sensitivity studies using these idealizations suggest that the Meyers et al. (1992) ice nucleation scheme prevents mixed-phase cloud from existing by producing too many ice crystals. Microphysics is shown to strongly deplete cloud water in stratiform cases, indicating problems with sequential splitting in CAM5 and the need for careful interpretation of output from sequentially split climate models. Droplet concentration in the general circulation model (GCM) version of CAM5 is also shown to be far too low (similar to 25 cm(-3)) at the southern Great Plains (SGP) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) site.
The spatial variability of rain rate R is evaluated by using both radar observations and cloud-resolving model output, focusing on the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) period. In general, the model-predicted rain-rate probability distributions agree well with those estimated from the radar data across a wide range of spatial scales. The spatial variability in R, which is defined according to the standard deviation of R (for R greater than a predefined threshold Rmin) (R), is found to vary according to both the average of R over a given footprint (R) and the footprint size or averaging scale . There is good agreement between area-averaged model output and radar data at a height of 2.5 km. The model output at the surface is used to construct a scale-dependent parameterization of (R) as a function of (R) and that can bereadily implemented into large-scale numerical models. The variability in both the rainwater mixing ratio qrand R as a function of height is also explored. From the statistical analysis, a scale- and height-dependent formulation for the spatial variability of both qr and R is provided for the analyzed tropical scenario. Last, it is shown how this parameterization can be used to assist in constraining parameters that are often used to describe the surface rain-rate distribution. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
A Simplified Land Model (SLM) that uses a minimalist set of parameters with a single-layer vegetation and multilevel soil structure has been developed distinguishing canopy and undercanopy energy budgets. The primary motivation has been to design a land model for use in the System for Atmospheric Modeling (SAM) cloud-resolving model to study land-atmosphere interactions with a sufficient level of realism. SLM uses simplified expressions for the transport of heat, moisture, momentum, and radiation in soil-vegetation system. The SLM performance has been evaluated over several land surface types using summertime tower observations of micrometeorological and biophysical data from three AmeriFlux sites, which include grassland, cropland, and deciduous-broadleaf forest. In general, the SLM captures the observed diurnal cycle of surface energy budget and soil temperature reasonably well, although reproducing the evolution of soil moisture, especially after rain events, has been challenging. The SLM coupled to SAM has been applied to the case of summertime shallow cumulus convection over land based on the Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM) Southern Great Plain (SGP) observations. The simulated surface latent and sensible heat fluxes as well as the evolution of thermodynamic profiles in convective boundary layer agree well with the estimates based on the observations. Sensitivity of atmospheric boundary layer development to the soil moisture and different land cover types has been also examined. 2015. The Authors.
A physical retrieval algorithm has been developed for deriving the legacy atmospheric profile (LAP) product from infrared radiances of the Advanced Baseline Imager (ABI) on board the next-generation Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES-R) series. In this study, the GOES-R ABI LAP retrieval algorithm is applied to the GOES-13 sounder radiance measurements (termed the GOES-13 LAP retrieval algorithm in this study) for its validation as well as for potential transition of the GOES-13 LAP retrieval algorithm for the operational processing of GOES sounder data. The GOES-13 LAP retrievals are compared with five different truth measurements: radiosonde observation (raob) and microwave radiometer-measured total precipitable water (TPW) at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Cloud and Radiation Testbed site, conventional raob, TPW measurements from the global positioning system-integrated precipitable water NOAA network, and TPW measurements from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer for Earth Observing System (AMSR-E). The results show that with the GOES-R ABI LAP retrieval algorithm, the GOES-13 sounder provides better water vapor profiles than the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) Global Forecast System (GFS) forecast fields at the levels between 300 and 700 hPa. The root-mean-square error (RMSE) and standard deviation (STD) of the GOES-13 sounder TPW are consistently reduced from those of the GFS forecast no matter which measurements are used as the truth. These substantial improvements indicate that the GOES-R ABI LAP retrieval algorithm is well prepared to provide continuity of quality to some of the current GOES sounder products, and the algorithm can be transferred to process the current GOES sounder measurements for operational product generation.
A physical retrieval algorithm has been developed for deriving the legacy atmospheric profile (LAP) product from infrared radiances of the Advanced Baseline Imager (ABI) on board the next-generation Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES-R) series. In this study, the GOES-R ABI LAP retrieval algorithm is applied to the GOES-13 sounder radiance measurements (termed the GOES-13 LAP retrieval algorithm in this study) for its validation as well as for potential transition of the GOES-13 LAP retrieval algorithm for the operational processing of GOES sounder data. The GOES-13 LAP retrievals are compared with five different truth measurements: radiosonde observation (raob) and microwave radiometer-measured total precipitable water (TPW) at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Cloud and Radiation Testbed site, conventional raob, TPW measurements from the global positioning system- integrated precipitable water NOAA network, and TPW measurements from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer for Earth Observing System (AMSR-E). The results show that with the GOES-R ABI LAP retrieval algorithm, the GOES-13 sounder provides better water vapor profiles than the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) Global Forecast System (GFS) forecast fields at the levels between 300 and 700 hPa. The root-mean-square error (RMSE) and standard deviation (STD) of the GOES-13 sounder TPW are consistently reduced from those of the GFS forecast no matter which measurements are used as the truth. These substantial improvements indicate that the GOES-R ABI LAP retrieval algorithm is well prepared to provide continuity of quality to some of the current GOES sounder products, and the algorithm can be transferred to process the current GOES sounder measurements for operational product generation.
The remote sensing of PM2.5 (particulate matter concentration with aerodynamic diameter d 2.5 m) mass concentration is mostly based on the measurements of AOD (aerosol optical depth) that is a common product of satellite and ground instruments which measure spectral radiance. The relationship between surface PM2.5 and column integrated AOD is found associated with vertical and size distribution of aerosols. In this study, a non-linear regression model combining AOD and near surface backscatter for estimation of PM2.5 is developed and tested based on 6 years ground measurements from HUBC (Howard University Beltsville Campus) facility. Overall, the non-linear model explains ~60% of the variability in hourly PM2.5. The RMSE (root-mean-square error) is ~5.83 g/m3with a corresponding average PM2.5 of 15.43 g/m3. That is a big improvement to the linear model using AOD alone (~40% of the variability, RMSE is ~7.14 g/m3). The ceilometer measured near surface backscatter is found to improve the estimation of PM2.5-AOD relationship the most compared to other factors, such as aerosol size indicator, surface temperature, relative humidity, wind speed and pressure especially when AOD is large (AOD 0.3). As aerosol size indicator, two Angstrom exponents are calculated by AOD at three wavelengths of 415, 500, 860 nm and are found also important to the PM2.5-AOD relationship. In addition to the HUBC site, the model is tested based on the 4 years (2012 to 2015) measurements from ARM SGP site and the nearest EPA site. The results also show the significant role of the ceilometer measured near surface backscatter on improving estimation of PM2.5. This study illustrated the potential of ceilometer on investigation of air pollution. With broad ceilometer network, ground-level particle concentrations can be better determined. 2016 Elsevier Inc.
A synergetic algorithm of retrieving vertical distribution of cloud drop effective radius (Re), liquid water content (LWC), and optical depth has been developed by combining oxygen A-band spectral measurements with radar reflectivity. The underlying physics is to utilize the photon path length information from oxygen A-band measurements to constrain the retrievals of cloud microphysical properties from radar reflectivity. Through a radiation closure of the rotating shadowband spectrometer (RSS) diffuse-horizontal irradiances in the oxygen A-band (which is sensitive to vertical distribution of the 2nd moment of particle size distribution), vertical distributions of cloud microphysical property (the 3rd moment of particle size distribution) are optimized and retrieved from Millimeter Wave Cloud Radar (MMCR) reflectivity (the 6th moment of particle size distribution). The critical issues in the synergetic cloud retrievals of combining passive and active instruments are discussed and carefully taken into account. Evaluation and validation through case studies show that the retrieved column mean values of cloud optical depth, effective radius, and liquid water path agree well with independent measurements from the microwave radiometer (MWR) and independent retrievals from a combined algorithm of multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer (MFRSR) and MWR and the column physical characterization (CPC) of MMCR. These studies demonstrate that this active-passive synergetic retrieval algorithm is feasible and accurate for retrievals of vertical distribution of cloud Re and LWC for stratus clouds.
A synergetic algorithm of retrieving vertical distribution of cloud drop effective radius (R-e), liquid water content (LWC), and optical depth has been developed by combining oxygen A-band spectral measurements with radar reflectivity. The underlying physics is to utilize the photon path length information from oxygen A-band measurements to constrain the retrievals of cloud microphysical properties from radar reflectivity. Through a radiation closure of the rotating shadowband spectrometer (RSS) diffuse-horizontal irradiances in the oxygen A-band (which is sensitive to vertical distribution of the 2nd moment of particle size distribution), vertical distributions of cloud microphysical property (the 3rd moment of particle size distribution) are optimized and retrieved from Millimeter Wave Cloud Radar (MMCR) reflectivity (the 6th moment of particle size distribution). The critical issues in the synergetic cloud retrievals of combining passive and active instruments are discussed and carefully taken into account. Evaluation and validation through case studies show that the retrieved column mean values of cloud optical depth, effective radius, and liquid water path agree well with independent measurements from the microwave radiometer (MWR) and independent retrievals from a combined algorithm of multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer (MFRSR) and MWR and the column physical characterization (CPC) of MMCR. These studies demonstrate that this active-passive synergetic retrieval algorithm is feasible and accurate for retrievals of vertical distribution of cloud R-e and LWC for stratus clouds.
Radiative heating profiles of the International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project (ISCCP) cloud regimes (or weather states) were estimated by matching ISCCP observations with radiative properties derived from cloud radar and lidar measurements from the Department of Energy (DOE) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) sites at Manus, Papua New Guinea, and Darwin, Australia. Focus was placed on the ISCCP cloud regimes containing the majority of upper level clouds in the tropics, i.e., mesoscale convective systems (MCSs), deep cumulonimbus with cirrus, mixed shallow and deep convection, and thin cirrus. At upper levels, these regimes have average maximum cloud occurrences ranging from 30% to 55% near 12 km with variations depending on the location and cloud regime. The resulting radiative heating profiles have maxima of approximately 1 K/day near 12 km, with equal heating contributions from the longwave and shortwave components. Upper level minima occur near 15 km, with the MCS regime showing the strongest cooling of 0.2 K/day and the thin cirrus showing no cooling. The gradient of upper level heating ranges from 0.2 to 0.4 K/(day.km), with the most convectively active regimes (i.e., MCSs and deep cumulonimbus with cirrus) having the largest gradient. When the above heating profiles were applied to the 25-year ISCCP data set, the tropics-wide average profile has a radiative heating maximum of 0.45 K day(-1) near 250 hPa. Column-integrated radiative heating of upper level cloud accounts for about 20% of the latent heating estimated by the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Precipitation Radar (PR). The ISCCP radiative heating of tropical upper level cloud only slightly modifies the response of an idealized primitive equation model forced with the tropics-wide TRMM PR latent heating, which suggests that the impact of upper level cloud is more important to large-scale tropical circulation variations because of convective feedbacks rather than direct forcing by the cloud radiative heating profiles. However, the height of the radiative heating maxima and gradient of the heating profiles are important to determine the sign and patterns of the horizontal circulation anomaly driven by radiative heating at upper levels. Citation: Li, W., C. Schumacher, and S. A. McFarlane (2013), Radiative heating of the ISCCP upper level cloud regimes and its impact on the large-scale tropical circulation, J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 118, 592-604, doi:10.1002/jgrd.50114.
Frost flowers are clusters of highly saline ice crystals growing on newly formed sea ice or frozen lakes. Based on observations of particles derived from frost flowers in the Arctic, we formulate an observation-based parameterization of salt aerosol source function from frost flowers. The particle flux from frost flowers in winter has the order of 106 m-2 s-1 at the wind speed of 10 m s-1, but the source flux is highly localized to new sea ice regions and strongly dependent on wind speed. We have implemented this parameterization into the regional Weather Research and Forecasting model with Chemistry initialized for two wintertime scenarios. The addition of sea salt aerosol emissions from frost flowers increases averaged sea salt aerosol mass and number concentration and subsequent cloud droplet number. This change of cloud droplet number concentration increases downward longwave cloud radiative forcing through enhanced cloud optical depth and emissivity. The magnitude of this forcing of sea salt aerosols from frost flowers on clouds and radiation, however, contributes negligibly to surface warming in Barrow, Alaska, in the wintertime scenarios studied here.
Aerosols alter cloud density and the radiative balance of the atmosphere. This leads to changes in cloud microphysics and atmospheric stability, which can either suppress or foster the development of clouds and precipitation. The net effect is largely unknown, but depends on meteorological conditions and aerosol properties. Here, we examine the long-term impact of aerosols on the vertical development of clouds and rainfall frequencies, using a 10-year dataset of aerosol, cloud and meteorological variables collected in the Southern Great Plains in the United States. We show that cloud-top height and thickness increase with aerosol concentration measured near the ground in mixed-phase clouds-which contain both liquid water and ice-that have a warm, low base. We attribute the effect, which is most significant in summer, to an aerosol-induced invigoration of upward winds. In contrast, we find no change in cloud-top height and precipitation with aerosol concentration in clouds with no ice or cool bases. We further show that precipitation frequency and rain rate are altered by aerosols. Rain increases with aerosol concentration in deep clouds that have a high liquid-water content, but declines in clouds that have a low liquid-water content. Simulations using a cloud-resolving model confirm these observations. Our findings provide unprecedented insights of the long-term net impacts of aerosols on clouds and precipitation.
We produce fine-resolution, three-dimensional fields of meteorological and other variables for the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains site. The Community Gridpoint Statistical Interpolation system is implemented in a multiscale data assimilation (MS-DA) framework that is used within the Weather Research and Forecasting model at a cloud-resolving resolution of 2km. The MS-DA algorithm uses existing reanalysis products and constrains fine-scale atmospheric properties by assimilating high-resolution observations. A set of experiments show that the data assimilation analysis realistically reproduces the intensity, structure, and time evolution of clouds and precipitation associated with a mesoscale convective system. Evaluations also show that the large-scale forcing derived from the fine-resolution analysis has an overall accuracy comparable to the existing ARM operational product. For enhanced applications, the fine-resolution fields are used to characterize the contribution of subgrid variability to the large-scale forcing and to derive hydrometeor forcing, which are presented in companion papers.
A new operational retrieval of cloud droplet number concentration (N-D) at cloud base has been produced from surface remote sensors at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains site for 13years from January 1998 to January 2011. The retrieval is based on surface radiometer measurements of cloud optical depth from the multifilter rotating shadow band radiometer and liquid water path from the microwave radiometer (MWR). It is only applicable for single-layered overcast warm (stratus or stratocumulus) clouds. Evaluation with in situ aircraft measurements during the extended-term aircraft field campaign, Routine ARM Aerial Facility (AAF) Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths (CLOWD) Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO), shows that the retrieved N-D robustly reproduces the primary mode of the in situ measured probability density function (PDF) but produces too wide a distribution, primarily caused by frequent high cloud droplet number concentration. Our analysis shows that the error in the MWR retrievals at low liquid water paths is one possible reason for this deficiency. Modification through the diagnosed liquid water path from the coordinate solution improves not only the PDF of the retrieved N-D but also the relationship between the cloud droplet number concentration and cloud droplet effective radius. Consideration of entrainment effects rather than assuming an adiabatic cloud improves the values of the N-D retrieval by reducing the magnitude of cloud droplet number concentration. Aircraft measurements and retrieval comparisons suggest that retrieving the vertical distribution of cloud droplet number concentration and effective radius is feasible with an improvement of the parameter representing the mixing effects between environment and clouds and with a better understanding of the effect of mixing degree on cloud properties.
Land surface hydrology is important to regional climate, ecosystem, agriculture, and even human activities. Changes in soil moisture can produce considerable impacts on socioeconomics. Analysis of assimilation model results, especially those from the Community Land Model, shows that soil moisture over Oklahoma region is continuously reduced from 1980 to 2009. The potential drying trend in the Oklahoma region is evaluated by observations taken during last three decades in this study. Satellite data from Global Precipitation Climatology Project exhibit a clear precipitation decrease in the Oklahoma region during the last decade or so compared with those of two or three decades ago. Accompanying with the precipitation variation, land surface net radiation and temperature over the region are found increases by satellite and/or in-situ measurements. These changes in regional climate conditions also likely result in reduction of regional evaporation and enhancement of sensible heat transport from land surface into the atmosphere as indicated in assimilated data. These observed and modeled evidences of the changes in regional water and energy cycles lead us to conclude that the soil moisture over the Oklahoma region was reduced during the last decade. This soil moisture drop could increase a risk in water shortage for agriculture in the Oklahoma state if the dry period continues. Further investigations on the drying in the Oklahoma State or even entire Southern Great Plains are needed to mitigate potential droughts, reductions in vegetation products, and other socioeconomic impacts. [All rights reserved Elsevier].
Climatically important low-level clouds are commonly misrepresented in climate models. The FAst-physics System TEstbed and Research (FASTER) Project has constructed case studies from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Climate Research Facility's Southern Great Plain site during the RACORO aircraft campaign to facilitate research on model representation of boundary-layer clouds. This paper focuses on using the single-column Community Atmosphere Model version 5 (SCAM5) simulations of a multi-day continental shallow cumulus case to identify specific parameterization causes of low-cloud biases. Consistent model biases among the simulations driven by a set of alternative forcings suggest that uncertainty in the forcing plays only a relatively minor role. In-depth analysis reveals that the model's shallow cumulus convection scheme tends to significantly under-produce clouds during the times when shallow cumuli exist in the observations, while the deep convective and stratiform cloud schemes significantly over-produce low-level clouds throughout the day. The links between model biases and the underlying assumptions of the shallow cumulus scheme are further diagnosed with the aid of large-eddy simulations and aircraft measurements, and by suppressing the triggering of the deep convection scheme. It is found that the weak boundary layer turbulence simulated is directly responsible for the weak cumulus activity and the simulated boundary layer stratiform clouds. Increased vertical and temporal resolutions are shown to lead to stronger boundary layer turbulence and reduction of low-cloud biases.
Subgrid-scale humidity variability is critical for statistical cloud schemes. The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) sounding array, covering a comparable size to a grid box of current global climate models (GCMs), provides estimates of subgrid-scale humidity variability. Using radiosonde measurements from ARM sounding arrays, humidity variabilities at a tropical and a midlatitude site are analyzed. Normalized moisture variance is small in the lower troposphere but tends to be large in the middle troposphere. Moisture variability dominates relative humidity (RH) variability at the tropical site, but the contribution by temperature variability cannot be ignored at the midlatitude site. Based on the analysis, a simple linear relationship between RH variance and mean is proposed. Cloud schemes assuming Gaussian distributions give comparable cloudiness as those assuming a beta distribution considering both moisture variance and skewness. A probability distribution function scheme assuming a Gaussian distribution of RH has more flexibility than a RH threshold scheme, which tends to overestimate cloudiness in the moist boundary layer over the tropics. Supersaturation with respect to ice needs to be allowed in the upper troposphere over the tropics to reduce the persistent overestimated cloudiness there. Similar comparison results are found from analysis of cloud resolving model simulations. The study suggests that measurements from sounding arrays would be valuable for statistical cloud scheme evaluation and development.
Relationships among relatively high-frequency probability distribution functions (pdfs) of anomalous column water vapor (cwv), precipitating deep convection, and the vertical and horizontal structures of circulation and tropospheric moisture are investigated for the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) climate observing facility at Nauru in the western equatorial Pacific. At the highest frequencies (subdaily) analyzed, the cwv pdf exhibits a Gaussian core with pronounced longer-than-Gaussian, approximately exponential tails, with the relatively lower-frequency submonthly pdfs becoming more Gaussian distributed across the entire range of cwv variability. The genesis and morphology of the longer-than-Gaussian tails are examined within the context of several hypothetical mechanisms outlined in prior work. For example, pdf conditioning on ARM optical gauge precipitation measurements reveals an association of the positive-side tail with precipitating deep convective conditions; thus, despite the condensation and fallout of cwv during rainfall events, it is argued that updraft vertical motions associated with deep convection locally compensate the loss by increasing cwv. Using vertical moisture profiles from ARM radiosonde measurements, vertical structures of specific humidity anomalies associated with tail-regime cwv excursions are computed, with the negative cwv profile significantly departing from the mean profile in the lower free troposphere. Such behavior is consistent with local restorative surface evaporative forcing and turbulent mixing in the atmospheric boundary layer and drying of the column from above during descent conditions. Analysis of cwv variability with respect to the horizontal moisture structure, using gridded measurements from the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI) and trajectories from the Hybrid Single-Particle Lagrangian Integrated Trajectory (HYSPLIT) model driven by NCEP-NCAR reanalysis meteorology underscores how the horizontal and vertical components modulate Nauru cwv: in particular, high cwv conditions at Nauru are often associated with weakened low-level inflow from the dry regions to the east of Nauru and stronger along-trajectory ascent. Finally, comparison of the ARM-based pdfs to those estimated from the reanalysis illustrates how pdf-based diagnostics may be useful tools for model intercomparison and validation.
Ground-based high temporal and vertical resolution datasets from observations during 2002-07 at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) tropical western Pacific (TWP) site on Manus Island are used to examine the characteristics of clouds and rainfall associated with the active phase of the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) passing over Manus. A composite MJO event at Manus is developed based on the NOAA MJO index 4 and precipitation using 13 events. The cloud characteristics associated with the active phase of the MJO at Manus show a two-phase structure as the wave passes over Manus. During the development phase, congestus plays an important role, and the enhanced convection is located between surface westerly and easterly wind anomalies (type-I structure). During the mature phase, deep convection is the dominant cloud type, and the enhanced convection is collocated with the westerly wind anomalies (type-II structure). Consistent with this two-phase structure, the heavy rainfall frequency also shows a two-peak structure during the MJO disturbance, while light rainfall does not show a clear relation to the intraseasonal disturbance associated with the MJO. In addition, a positive relationship between the precipitation rate and precipitable water vapor exists at Manus, and the atmospheric column is less moist after the passing of the MJO convection center than before.
Aerosol optical depth (AOD), aerosol single scattering albedo (SSA), and asymmetry factor (g) at seven ultraviolet wavelengths along with total column ozone (TOC) were retrieved based on Bayesian optimal estimation (OE) from the measurements of the UltraViolet Multifilter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (UV-MFRSR) deployed at the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site during March to November in 2009. To assess the accuracy of the OE technique, the AOD retrievals are compared to both the Beer's law derived ones and the AErosol RObotic Network (AERONET) AOD product; and the TOC retrievals are compared to both the TOC product of the U.S. Department of Agriculture UV-B Monitoring and Research Program (USDA UVMRP) and the Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) satellite data. The scatterplots of the AOD estimated by the OE method with the Beer's law derived ones and the collocated AERONET AOD product both show a very good agreement: the correlation coefficients vary between 0.98 and 0.99; the slopes range from 0.95 to 1.0; and the offsets are less than 0.02 at 368 nm. The comparison of TOC also shows a promising accuracy of the OE method: the standard deviations of the difference between the OE derived TOC and other TOC products are about 5 to 6 Dobson Units (DU). The validation of the OE retrievals on the selected dates suggests the OE technique has its merits and is a supplemental tool in analyzing UVMRP data. Copyright 2013 SPIE.
A Bayesian optimal estimation (OE) retrieval technique was used to retreive aerosol optical depth (AOD), aerosol single scattering albedo (SSA), and an asymmetry factor (g) at seven ultraviolet wavelengths, along with total column ozone (TOC), from the measurements of the UltraViolet Multifilter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (UV-MFRSR) deployed at the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site during March through November in 2009. The OE technique specifies appropriate error covariance matrices and optimizes a forward model (Tropospheric ultraviolet radiative transfer model, TUV), and thus provides a supplemental method for use across the network of the Department of Agriculture UV-B Monitoring and Research Program (USDA UVMRP) for the retrieval of aerosol properties and TOC with reasonable accuracy in the UV spectral range under various atmospheric conditions. In order to assess the accuracy of the OE technique, we compared the AOD retreivals from this method with those from Beer's Law and the AErosol RObotic Network (AERONET) AOD product. We also examine the OE retrieved TOC in comparison with the TOC from the U.S. Department of Agriculture UV-B Monitoring and Research Program (USDA UVMRP) and the Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) satellite data. The scatterplots of the estimated AOD from the OE method agree well with those derived from Beer's law and the collocated AERONETAOD product, showing high values of correlation coefficients, generally 0.98 and 0.99, and large slopes, ranging from 0.95 to 1.0, as well as small offsets, less than 0.02 especially at 368 nm. The comparison of TOC retrievals also indicates the promising accuracy of the OE method in that the standard deviations of the difference between the OE derived TOC and other TOC products are about 5 to 6 Dobson Units (DU). Validation of the OE retrievals on these selected dates suggested that the OE technique has its merits and can serve as a supplemental tool in further analyzing UVMRP data.
Surface momentum, sensible heat, and latent heat fluxes are critical for atmospheric processes such as clouds and precipitation, and are parameterized in a variety of models ranging from cloud-resolving models to largescale weather and climate models. However, direct evaluation of the parameterization schemes for these surface fluxes is rare due to limited observations. This study takes advantage of the long-term observations of surface fluxes collected at the Southern Great Plains site by the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program to evaluate the six surface flux parameterization schemes commonly used in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model and three U.S. general circulation models (GCMs). The unprecedented 7-yr-long measurements by the eddy correlation (EC) and energy balance Bowen ratio (EBBR) methods permit statistical evaluation of all six parameterizations under a variety of stability conditions, diurnal cycles, and seasonal variations. The statistical analyses show that the momentum flux parameterization agrees best with the EC observations, followed by latent heat flux, sensible heat flux, and evaporation ratio/Bowen ratio. The overall performance of the parameterizations depends on atmospheric stability, being best under neutral stratification and deteriorating toward both more stable and more unstable conditions. Further diagnostic analysis reveals that in addition to the parameterization schemes themselves, the discrepancies between observed and parameterized sensible and latent heat fluxes may stem from inadequate use of input variables such as surface temperature, moisture availability, and roughness length. The results demonstrate the need for improving the land surface models and measurements of surface properties, which would permit the evaluation of full land surface models.
Surface momentum, sensible heat, and latent heat fluxes are critical for atmospheric processes such as clouds and precipitation, and are parameterized in a variety of models ranging from cloud-resolving models to large-scale weather and climate models. However, direct evaluation of the parameterization schemes for these surface fluxes is rare due to limited observations. This study takes advantage of the long-term observations of surface fluxes collected at the Southern Great Plains site by the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program to evaluate the six surface flux parameterization schemes commonly used in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model and three U.S. general circulation models (GCMs). The unprecedented 7-yr-long measurements by the eddy correlation (EC) and energy balance Bowen ratio (EBBR) methods permit statistical evaluation of all six parameterizations under a variety of stability conditions, diurnal cycles, and seasonal variations. The statistical analyses show that the momentum flux parameterization agrees best with the EC observations, followed by latent heat flux, sensible heat flux, and evaporation ratio/Bowen ratio. The overall performance of the parameterizations depends on atmospheric stability, being best under neutral stratification and deteriorating toward both more stable and more unstable conditions. Further diagnostic analysis reveals that in addition to the parameterization schemes themselves, the discrepancies between observed and parameterized sensible and latent heat fluxes may stem from inadequate use of input variables such as surface temperature, moisture availability, and roughness length. The results demonstrate the need for improving the land surface models and measurements of surface properties, which would permit the evaluation of full land surface models.
Large-scale measurements of cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) are difficult to obtain on a routine basis, whereas aerosol optical quantities are more readily available. This study investigates the relationship between CCN and aerosol optical quantities for some distinct aerosol types using extensive observational data collected at multiple Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Climate Research Facility (CRF) sites around the world. The influences of relative humidity (RH), aerosol hygroscopicity (f(RH)) and single scattering albedo (SSA) on the relationship are analyzed. Better relationships are found between aerosol optical depth (AOD) and CCN at the Southern Great Plains (US), Ganges Valley (India) and Black Forest sites (Germany) than those at the Graciosa Island (the Azores) and Niamey (Niger) sites, where sea salt and dust aerosols dominate, respectively. In general, the correlation between AOD and CCN decreases as the wavelength of the AOD measurement increases, suggesting that AOD at a shorter wavelength is a better proxy for CCN. The correlation is significantly improved if aerosol index (AI) is used together with AOD. The highest correlation exists between CCN and aerosol scattering coefficients (sigma(sp)) and scattering AI measured in situ. The CCN-AOD (AI) relationship deteriorates with increasing RH. If RH exceeds 75 %, the relationship where AOD is used as a proxy for CCN becomes invalid, whereas a tight sigma(sp)-CCN relationship exists for dry particles. Aerosol hygroscopicity has a weak impact on the sigma(sp)-CCN relationship. Particles with low SSA are generally associated with higher CCN concentrations, suggesting that SSA affects the relationship between CCN concentration and aerosol optical quantities. It may thus be used as a constraint to reduce uncertainties in the relationship. A significant increase in sigma(sp) and decrease in CCN with increasing SSA is observed, leading to a significant decrease in their ratio (CCN / sigma(sp)) with increasing SSA. Parameterized relationships are developed for estimating CCN, which account for RH, particle size, and SSA.
The cloud fraction (CF) and cloud-base heights (CBHs), and cirrus properties, over a site in southeastern China from June 2008 to May 2009, are examined by a ground-based lidar. Results show that clouds occupied the sky 41% of the time. Significant seasonal variations in CF were found with a maximum/minimum during winter/summer and similar magnitudes of CF in spring and autumn. A distinct diurnal cycle in the overall mean CF was seen. Total, daytime, and nighttime annual mean CBHs were 3.05 +/- 2.73 km, 2.46 +/- 2.08 km, and 3.51 +/- 3.07 km, respectively. The lowest/highest CBH occurred around noon/midnight. Cirrus clouds were present 36.2% of the time at night with the percentage increased in summer and decreased in spring. Annual mean values for cirrus geometrical properties were 8.89 +/- 1.65 km, 9.80 +/- 1.70 km, 10.73 +/- 1.86 km and 1.83 +/- 0.91 km for the base, mid-cloud, top height, and the thickness, respectively. Seasonal variations in cirrus geometrical properties show a maximum/minimum in summer/winter for all cirrus geometrical parameters. The mean cirrus lidar ratio for all cirrus cases in our study was 25 +/- 17 sr, with a smooth seasonal trend. The cirrus optical depth ranged from 0.001 to 2.475, with a mean of 0.34 +/- 0.33. Sub-visual, thin, and dense cirrus were observed in 12%, 43%, and 45% of the cases, respectively. More frequent, thicker cirrus clouds occurred in summer than in any other season. The properties of cirrus cloud over the site are compared with other lidar-based retrievals of midlatitude cirrus cloud properties.
A prototype space-based cloud radar has been developed and was installed on an airplane to observe a precipitation system over Tianjin, China in July 2010. Ground-based S-band and Ka-band radars were used to examine the observational capability of the prototype. A cross-comparison algorithm between different wavelengths, spatial resolutions and platform radars is presented. The reflectivity biases, correlation coefficients and standard deviations between the radars are analyzed. The equivalent reflectivity bias between the S- and Ka-band radars were simulated with a given raindrop size distribution. The results indicated that reflectivity bias between the S- and Ka-band radars due to scattering properties was less than 5 dB, and for weak precipitation the bias was negligible. The prototype space-based cloud radar was able to measure a reasonable vertical profile of reflectivity, but the reflectivity below an altitude of 1.5 km above ground level was obscured by ground clutter. The measured reflectivity by the prototype space-based cloud radar was approximately 10.9 dB stronger than that by the S-band Doppler radar (SA radar), and 13.7 dB stronger than that by the ground-based cloud radar. The reflectivity measured by the SA radar was 0.4 dB stronger than that by the ground-based cloud radar. This study could provide a method for the quantitative examination of the observation ability for space-based radars.
In this study, we evaluate high-level clouds in a cloud resolving model during two convective cases, ARM9707 and KWAJEX. The simulated joint histograms of cloud occurrence and radar reflectivity compare well with cloud radar and satellite observations when using a two-moment microphysics scheme. However, simulations performed with a single moment microphysical scheme exhibit low biases of approximately 20 dB. During convective events, two-moment microphysical overestimate the amount of high-level cloud and one-moment microphysics precipitate too readily and underestimate the amount and height of high-level cloud. For ARM9707, persistent large positive biases in high-level cloud are found, which are not sensitive to changes in ice particle fall velocity and ice nuclei number concentration in the two-moment microphysics. These biases are caused by biases in large-scale forcing and maintained by the periodic lateral boundary conditions. The combined effects include significant biases in high-level cloud amount, radiation, and high sensitivity of cloud amount to nudging time scale in both convective cases. The high sensitivity of high-level cloud amount to the thermodynamic nudging time scale suggests that thermodynamic nudging can be a powerful "tuning" parameter for the simulated cloud and radiation but should be applied with caution. The role of the periodic lateral boundary conditions in reinforcing the biases in cloud and radiation suggests that reducing the uncertainty in the large-scale forcing in high levels is important for similar convective cases and has far reaching implications for simulating high-level clouds in super-parameterized global climate models such as the multiscale modeling framework. 2015. The Authors.
A multiplatform data set from the Clouds, Aerosol, and Precipitation in the Marine Boundary Layer (MBL) Graciosa, Azores, 2009-2010 field campaign was used to investigate how continental aerosols can influence MBL cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) number concentration (NCCN). The seasonal variations of aerosol properties have shown that the winter and early spring months had the highest mean surface wind speed (> 5 m s-1) and greatest contribution of sea salt to aerosol optical depth (AOD), while continental fine mode aerosols were the main contributors to AOD during the warm season months (May-September). Five aerosol events consisting of mineral dust, pollution, biomass smoke, and volcanic ash particles were selected as case studies using Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) mobile facility measurements. The aerosols in Case I were found to primarily consist of coarse mode, Saharan mineral dust. For Case II, the aerosols were also coarse mode but consisted of volcanic ash. Case III had fine mode biomass smoke and pollution aerosol influences while Cases IV and V consisted of mixtures of North American pollution and Saharan dust that was advected by an extratropical cyclone to the Azores. Cases I, IV, and V exhibited weak correlations between aerosol loading and NCCN due to mineral dust influences, while Cases II and III had a strong relationship with NCCN likely due to the sulfate content in the volcanic ash and pollution particles. The permanent Eastern North Atlantic ARM facility over the Azores will aid in a future long-term study of aerosol effects on NCCN.
A multiplatform data set from the Clouds, Aerosol, and Precipitation in the Marine Boundary Layer (MBL) Graciosa, Azores, 2009-2010 field campaign was used to investigate how continental aerosols can influence MBL cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) number concentration (N-CCN). The seasonal variations of aerosol properties have shown that the winter and early spring months had the highest mean surface wind speed (> 5ms(-1)) and greatest contribution of sea salt to aerosol optical depth (AOD), while continental fine mode aerosols were the main contributors to AOD during the warm season months (May-September). Five aerosol events consisting of mineral dust, pollution, biomass smoke, and volcanic ash particles were selected as case studies using Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) mobile facility measurements. The aerosols in Case I were found to primarily consist of coarse mode, Saharan mineral dust. For Case II, the aerosols were also coarse mode but consisted of volcanic ash. Case III had fine mode biomass smoke and pollution aerosol influences while Cases IV and V consisted of mixtures of North American pollution and Saharan dust that was advected by an extratropical cyclone to the Azores. Cases I, IV, and V exhibited weak correlations between aerosol loading and N-CCN due to mineral dust influences, while Cases II and III had a strong relationship with N-CCN likely due to the sulfate content in the volcanic ash and pollution particles. The permanent Eastern North Atlantic ARM facility over the Azores will aid in a future long-term study of aerosol effects on N-CCN.
The interactions surrounding the coupling between surface energy balance and a boundary layer with shallow cumuli are investigated using the National Center for Atmospheric Research's large-eddy simulation code coupled to the Noah land surface model. The simulated cloudy boundary layer is based on the already well-documented and previously simulated 21 June 1997 case at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains central facility. The surface energy balance response to cloud shading is highly nonlinear, leading to different partitioning between sensible and latent heat flux compared to the surface not impacted by cloud. The evaporative fraction increases by about 2%-3% in the presence of shallow cumuli at the regional scale but can increase by up to 30% at any individual location. As expected, the cloud's reduction of solar irradiance largely controls the surface's response. However, the turbulence and secondary circulations associated with the cloud dynamics increases the surface flux variability. Even though they are less than 1 km in horizontal scale, the cloud-induced surface heterogeneities impact the vertical flux of heat and moisture up to approximately 20% of the height of the subcloud layer zsl, higher than the surface layer's typical extent. Above 0.2zsl, the cloud root tends to amplify the drying and the cooling of the subcloud layer. Near the entrainment zone, the cloud-induced latent heat flux increase and sensible heat flux decrease compensate each other with respect to total buoyancy and therefore do not significantly modify the subcloudlayer entrainment rate over large time scales. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
Nauru Island at times generates low clouds that impact low-level cloud statistics and downwelling shortwave radiation measurements made at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) site. This study uses five years of Nauru data to quantify the island impact on the site measurements. The results indicate that the solar-heating-produced Nauru island effect occurs about 11% of the time during daylight hours. The island effect increases the 500-1000-m cloud base occurrence by 15%-20% when clouds occur, but because the island effect only occurs 11% of the time the overall increase in daylight low-cloud statistics is 2%, or 1 for 24-h statistics. In a similar way, the island effect produces a reduction of about 17% in the downwelling shortwave (SW) radiation across the daylight hours during the 11% of the time it occurs, an overall 2% daylight (or 1 % for 24 h) average reduction. The island effect produces frequent positive downwelling SW cloud effects, in particular during the morning, which tend to somewhat mitigate the overall decrease in downwelling SW radiation that is due to clouds. This produces 17 W m-2 less daylight average SW cloud effect relative to non-island-effect times, in particular for the convectively suppressed regime that typifies island-effect-producing conditions. For long-term overall statistical studies such as model and satellite comparisons, the 2% daylight (or 1% per 24 h) average increase in low-level cloud occurrence and decrease in downwelling SW are not of large concern as long as researchers are aware of them. For shorter-term studies, however, or those that separate data by conditions such as convectively active/suppressed regimes, the Nauru island effect can have significant impacts.
A pair of permanent observing sites on the islands of Manus and Nauru have enhanced research into clouds, atmosphere, and radiation in a region where convective systems affect the entire globe. The first Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Tropical Western Pacific (ARM TWP) site was established on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea with observations starting in October 1996. The second equatorial ARM TWP site was established on the western side of the tiny island nation of Nauru, at 0.5S, 166.9E, in November 1998. The comprehensive ARM measurements provide a unique capability to study the radiation budget in the full context of the thermodynamic and cloud structures affecting it. Another important mode of variability that is well documented in the ARM TWP data is the Madden-Julian oscillation. Concurrent deployment of multiple active and passive sensors at the ARM TWP provides an opportunity to probe the microphysical properties of tropical clouds.
This article deals with the tropospheric water vapour distribution at Niamey (Niger) observed with a high-temporal-resolution (14 s) microwave radiometric profiler. Data were collected during the whole year 2006 in the framework of the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) campain. Two seasonal periods are considered: the dry season, when the northeasterly Harmattan is flowing at low tropospheric level, and the wet season, associated with the southwesterly monsoon circulation. The fine vertical structure of temperature, convective air stability and water vapour for each seasonal period is described in detail and differences are emphasized. Typical temporal series and monthly averaged diurnal cycles are presented. It is shown that a diurnal cycle of water vapour is present throughout the year, including the dry season. The diurnal cycle of water vapour is controlled mainly by the nocturnal low-level jet (NLLJ). During the dry season, the diurnal cycle of water vapour is organized into two layers: a lower layer (LL) from the surface up to 0.6-1.4 km above ground level (agl) and an upper layer (UL) from 1.4 up to 5-6 km agl. The water vapour distributions in the LL and UL are anticorrelated, with a half-day temporal shift. As a result, the vertically integrated water vapour (IWV), which displays a quasi-sinusoidal diurnal cycle when computed separately for the LL and UL, appears almost flat for the total tropospheric height, due to the half-day period shift. This structure of two layers is not observed during the wet season. Probability density functions (pdfs) of water vapour content are presented. In dry conditions, the pdfs are well fitted by a log-normal distribution, while the Weibull distribution fits the pdfs for wet conditions better.
This paper presents a method to distinguish and link inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent and collision-coalescence. Three stratocumulus clouds analyzed were collected over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site during the March 2000 cloud Intensive Observation Period. The criteria are presented to distinguish the two processes. Inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent is identified if cloud along an aircraft horizontal leg is non-drizzling and the relationship between cloud volume-mean radius and liquid water content is negative; in contrast, drizzling and positive relationship between the above two properties are the criteria for collision-coalescence. To link the two processes, threshold function, the possibility of occurrence of collision-coalescence, is employed; the big droplets generated during the inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent increase the threshold function, initiates collision-coalescence and produces drizzle drops. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first study on distinguishing and linking inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent and collision-coalescence based on observational data.
Different turbulent entrainment-mixing processes (e.g., homogeneous and inhomogeneous) occur in clouds; accurate representation of these processes is critical for improving cloud-related parameterizations in large-scale models, but poorly understood and quantified. Using in situ aircraft observations over the U. S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site during the March 2000 Cloud Intensive Observation Period and numerical simulations with the Explicit Mixing Parcel Model (EMPM), here we explore the potential of using degree of homogeneous mixing as a measure to quantify these different mechanisms and examine various microphysical measures of homogeneous mixing degree and their relationships to entrainment-mixing dynamics as measured by transition scale numbers. Three different microphysical measures for the homogeneous mixing degree are newly defined and each is coupled with one of two different transition scale numbers. Both observations and simulations show that all the combinations have positive correlated relationships; simulations further show that the tightest relationship is between the measure of homogeneous mixing degree considering adiabatic number concentration and the transition scale number accounting for mixing fraction of dry air. A parameterization of the entrainment-mixing processes is advanced according to the relationships of homogeneous mixing degree measures to transition scale numbers.
The simultaneous measurements of vertical velocity and cloud droplet size distributions in cumuli collected during the RACORO field campaign over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Southern Great Plains site near Lamont, Oklahoma, US, are analyzed to determine the effects of vertical velocity on droplet number concentration, relative dispersion (the ratio of standard deviation to mean radius), and their relationship. The results show that with increasing vertical velocity the droplet number concentration increases while the relative dispersion decreases. The data also exhibit a negative correlation between relative dispersion and droplet number concentration. These empirical relationships can be fitted well with power law functions. This observational study confirms the theoretical and numerical expectations of the effects of vertical velocity on cloud microphysics by analyzing the data of vertical velocity directly. The effects of vertical velocity on relative dispersion and its relationship with droplet number concentration are opposite to that associated with aerosol loading, posing a confounding challenge for separating aerosol indirect effects from dynamical effects.
This work examines the relationships of entrainment rate to vertical velocity, buoyancy, and turbulent dissipation rate by applying stepwise principal component regression to observational data from shallow cumulus clouds collected during the Routine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Aerial Facility (AAF) Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths (CLOWD) Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign over the ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site near Lamont, Oklahoma. The cumulus clouds during the RACORO campaign simulated using a large-eddy simulation (LES) model are also examined with the same approach. The analysis shows that a combination of multiple variables can better represent entrainment rate in both the observations and LES than any single-variable fitting. Three commonly used parameterizations are also tested on the individual cloud scale. A new parameterization is thus presented that relates entrainment rate to vertical velocity, buoyancy, and dissipation rate; the effects of treating clouds as ensembles and humid shells surrounding cumulus clouds on the new parameterization are discussed. Physical mechanisms underlying the relationships of entrainment rate to vertical velocity, buoyancy, and dissipation rate are also explored. 2016 American Meteorological Society.
The relationships between fractional entrainment rate and key microphysical quantities (e.g., liquid water content, droplet number concentration, volume mean radius, and standard deviation of cloud droplet size distributions) in shallow cumuli are empirically examined using in situ aircraft observations from the Routine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Aerial Facility Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site. The results show that the microphysical quantities examined generally exhibit strong relationships with entrainment rate and that the relationships collectively suggest the dominance of homogeneous entrainment mixing, which is unfavorable to the formation of large droplets and the initiation of warm rain in the clouds. The dominance of the homogeneous mixing mechanism is further substantiated by the dependency on entrainment rate of relationships among various microphysical variables and of cloud droplet size distributions. The dominance of this mechanism is also quantitatively confirmed by examining the degree of homogeneous mixing in the clouds. The dominance of homogeneous mixing may be an important reason why none of the cumulus clouds studied was drizzling. 2013 American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
This paper presents a method to distinguish and link inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent and collision-coalescence. Three stratocumulus clouds analyzed were collected over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site during the March 2000 cloud Intensive Observation Period. The criteria are presented to distinguish the two processes. Inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent is identified if cloud along an aircraft horizontal leg is non-drizzling and the relationship between cloud volume-mean radius and liquid water content is negative; in contrast, drizzling and positive relationship between the above two properties are the criteria for collision-coalescence. To link the two processes, threshold function, the possibility of occurrence of collision-coalescence, is employed; the big droplets generated during the inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent increase the threshold function, initiates collision-coalescence and produces drizzle drops. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first study on distinguishing and linking inhomogeneous mixing with subsequent ascent and collision-coalescence based on observational data.
This work empirically examines the dependence of entrainment-mixing mechanisms on the averaging scale in cumulus clouds using in situ aircraft observations during the Routine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Aerial Facility Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign. A new measure of homogeneous mixing degree is defined that can encompass all types of mixing mechanisms. Analysis of the dependence of the homogenous mixing degree on the averaging scale shows that, on average, the homogenous mixing degree decreases with increasing averaging scales, suggesting that apparent mixing mechanisms gradually approach from homogeneous mixing to extreme inhomogeneous mixing with increasing scales. The scale dependence can be well quantified by an exponential function, providing first attempt at developing a scale-dependent parameterization for the entrainment-mixing mechanism. The influences of three factors on the scale dependence are further examined: droplet-free filament properties (size and fraction), microphysical properties (mean volume radius and liquid water content of cloud droplet size distributions adjacent to droplet-free filaments), and relative humidity of entrained dry air. It is found that the decreasing rate of homogeneous mixing degree with increasing averaging scales becomes larger with larger droplet-free filament size and fraction, larger mean volume radius and liquid water content, or higher relative humidity. The results underscore the necessity and possibility of considering averaging scale in representation of entrainment-mixing processes in atmospheric models.
Different turbulent entrainment-mixing processes (e.g., homogeneous and inhomogeneous) occur in clouds; accurate representation of these processes is critical for improving cloud-related parameterizations in large-scale models, but poorly understood and quantified. Using in situ aircraft observations over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site during the March 2000 Cloud Intensive Observation Period and numerical simulations with the Explicit Mixing Parcel Model (EMPM), here we explore the potential of using degree of homogeneous mixing as a measure to quantify these different mechanisms and examine various microphysical measures of homogeneous mixing degree and their relationships to entrainment-mixing dynamics as measured by transition scale numbers. Three different microphysical measures for the homogeneous mixing degree are newly defined and each is coupled with one of two different transition scale numbers. Both observations and simulations show that all the combinations have positive correlated relationships; simulations further show that the tightest relationship is between the measure of homogeneous mixing degree considering adiabatic number concentration and the transition scale number accounting for mixing fraction of dry air. A parameterization of the entrainment-mixing processes is advanced according to the relationships of homogeneous mixing degree measures to transition scale numbers. Citation: Lu, C., Y. Liu, S. Niu, S. Krueger, and T. Wagner (2013), Exploring parameterization for turbulent entrainment-mixing processes in clouds, J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 118, 185-194, doi: 10.1029/2012JD018464.
The simultaneous measurements of vertical velocity and cloud droplet size distributions in cumuli collected during the RACORO field campaign over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Southern Great Plains site near Lamont, Oklahoma, US, are analyzed to determine the effects of vertical velocity on droplet number concentration, relative dispersion (the ratio of standard deviation to mean radius), and their relationship. The results show that with increasing vertical velocity the droplet number concentration increases while the relative dispersion decreases. The data also exhibit a negative correlation between relative dispersion and droplet number concentration. These empirical relationships can be fitted well with power law functions. This observational study confirms the theoretical and numerical expectations of the effects of vertical velocity on cloud microphysics by analyzing the data of vertical velocity directly. The effects of vertical velocity on relative dispersion and its relationship with droplet number concentration are opposite to that associated with aerosol loading, posing a confounding challenge for separating aerosol indirect effects from dynamical effects. Citation: Lu, C., Y. Liu, S. Niu, and A. M. Vogelmann (2012), Observed impacts of vertical velocity on cloud microphysics and implications for aerosol indirect effects, Geophys. Res. Lett., 39, L21808, doi:10.1029/2012GL053599.
This work examines the relationships of entrainment rate to vertical velocity, buoyancy, and turbulent dissipation rate by applying stepwise principal component regression to observational data from shallow cumulus clouds collected during the Routine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Aerial Facility (AAF) Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths (CLOWD) Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign over the ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site near Lamont, Oklahoma. The cumulus clouds during the RACORO campaign simulated using a large-eddy simulation (LES) model are also examined with the same approach. The analysis shows that a combination of multiple variables can better represent entrainment rate in both the observations and LES than any single-variable fitting. Three commonly used parameterizations are also tested on the individual cloud scale. A new parameterization is thus presented that relates entrainment rate to vertical velocity, buoyancy, and dissipation rate; the effects of treating clouds as ensembles and humid shells surrounding cumulus clouds on the new parameterization are discussed. Physical mechanisms underlying the relationships of entrainment rate to vertical velocity, buoyancy, and dissipation rate are also explored.
The relationships between fractional entrainment rate and key microphysical quantities (e.g., liquid water content, droplet number concentration, volume mean radius, and standard deviation of cloud droplet size distributions) in shallow cumuli are empirically examined using in situ aircraft observations from the Routine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Aerial Facility Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site. The results show that the microphysical quantities examined generally exhibit strong relationships with entrainment rate and that the relationships collectively suggest the dominance of homogeneous entrainment mixing, which is unfavorable to the formation of large droplets and the initiation of warm rain in the clouds. The dominance of the homogeneous mixing mechanism is further substantiated by the dependency on entrainment rate of relationships among various microphysical variables and of cloud droplet size distributions. The dominance of this mechanism is also quantitatively confirmed by examining the degree of homogeneous mixing in the clouds. The dominance of homogeneous mixing may be an important reason why none of the cumulus clouds studied was drizzling.
The retrieval of cloud, drizzle, and turbulence parameters using radar Doppler spectra is challenged by the convolution of microphysical and dynamical influences and the overall uncertainty introduced by turbulence. A new technique that utilizes recorded radar Doppler spectra from profiling cloud radars is presented here. The technique applies to areas in clouds where drizzle is initially produced by the autoconversion process and is detected by a positive skewness in the radar Doppler spectrum. Using the Gaussian-shape property of cloud Doppler spectra, the cloud-only radar Doppler spectrum is estimated and used to separate the cloud and drizzle contributions. Once separated, the cloud spectral peak can be used to retrieve vertical air motion and eddy dissipation rates, while the drizzle peak can be used to estimate the three radar moments of the drizzle particle size distribution. The technique works for nearly 50% of spectra found near cloud top, with efficacy diminishing to roughly 15% of spectra near cloud base. The approach has been tested on a large dataset collected in the Azores during the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Mobile Facility deployment on Graciosa Island from May 2009 through December 2010. Validation of the proposed technique is achieved using the cloud base as a natural boundary between radar Doppler spectra with and without cloud droplets. The retrieval algorithm has the potential to characterize the dynamical and microphysical conditions at cloud scale during the transition from cloud to precipitation. This has significant implications for improving the understanding of drizzle onset in liquid clouds and for improving model parameterization schemes of autoconversion of cloud water into drizzle.
Atmospheric boundary layer (ABL) processes are important in climate, weather and air quality. A better understanding of the structure and the behavior of the ABL is required for understanding and modeling of the chemistry and dynamics of the atmosphere on all scales. Based on the systematic variations of the ABL structures over different surfaces, different lidar-based methods were developed and evaluated to determine the boundary layer height and mixing layer height over land and ocean. With Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Climate Research Facility (ACRF) micropulse lidar (MPL) and radiosonde measurements, diurnal and season cycles of atmospheric boundary layer depth and the ABL vertical structure over ocean and land are analyzed. The new methods are then applied to satellite lidar measurements. The aerosol-derived global marine boundary layer heights are evaluated with marine ABL stratiform cloud top heights and results show a good agreement between them.
Accurate representation of the aerosol lifecycle requires adequate modeling of the particle number concentration and size distribution in addition to their mass, which is often the focus of aerosol modeling studies. This paper compares particle number concentrations and size distributions as predicted by three empirical nucleation parameterizations in the Weather Research and Forecast coupled with chemistry (WRF-Chem) regional model using 20 discrete size bins ranging from 1 nm to 10 mu m. Two of the parameterizations are based on H2SO4, while one is based on both H2SO4 and organic vapors. Budget diagnostic terms for transport, dry deposition, emissions, condensational growth, nucleation, and coagulation of aerosol particles have been added to the model and are used to analyze the differences in how the new particle formation parameterizations influence the evolving aerosol size distribution. The simulations are evaluated using measurements collected at surface sites and from a research aircraft during the Carbonaceous Aerosol and Radiative Effects Study (CARES) conducted in the vicinity of Sacramento, California. While all three parameterizations captured the temporal variation of the size distribution during observed nucleation events as well as the spatial variability in aerosol number, all overestimated by up to a factor of 2.5 the total particle number concentration for particle diameters greater than 10 nm. Using the budget diagnostic terms, we demonstrate that the combined H2SO4 and low-volatility organic vapor parameterization leads to a different diurnal variability of new particle formation and growth to larger sizes compared to the parameterizations based on only H2SO4. At the CARES urban ground site, peak nucleation rates are predicted to occur around 12: 00 Pacific (local) standard time (PST) for the H2SO4 parameterizations, whereas the highest rates were predicted at 08: 00 and 16: 00 PST when low-volatility organic gases are included in the parameterization. This can be explained by higher anthropogenic emissions of organic vapors at these times as well as lower boundary-layer heights that reduce vertical mixing. The higher nucleation rates in the H2SO4-organic parameterization at these times were largely offset by losses due to coagulation. Despite the different budget terms for ultrafine particles, the 10-40 nm diameter particle number concentrations from all three parameterizations increased from 10: 00 to 14: 00 PST and then decreased later in the afternoon, consistent with changes in the observed size and number distribution. We found that newly formed particles could explain up to 20-30% of predicted cloud condensation nuclei at 0.5% supersaturation, depending on location and the specific nucleation parameterization. A sensitivity simulation using 12 discrete size bins ranging from 1 nm to 10 mu m diameter gave a reasonable estimate of particle number and size distribution compared to the 20 size bin simulation, while reducing the associated computational cost by similar to 36 %.
The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program is collecting and storing data daily since 1992. New and updated data are continuously added to the data store resulting in a history of data changes that are not readily apparent or easy to document. Users are notified when updated data is available but the reason for the update is difficult to find. The ability to assign a version to the data provides a simple handle for adding further documentation. The software versioning processes did not appear to be a good fit because of the volume and frequency of changes. But by assigning a version number to a set of files and establishing conditions for changing the sets, we created a model that appears to be manageable. As a test, we applied it to the historical ARM data set. Our results showed that with some domain specific adjustments we were able to automatically generate a reasonable set of versions for ARM data. Further, we believe this method could be applied in other complex data domains.
This is a hardcoded string to represent the absent abstract
The possible interaction and modification of cloud properties due to aerosols is one of the most poorly understood mechanisms within climate studies, resulting in the most significant uncertainty as regards radiation budgeting. In this study, we explore direct ground based remote sensing methods to assess the Aerosol-Cloud Indirect Effect directly, as space-borne retrievals are not directly suitable for simultaneous aerosol/cloud retrievals. To illustrate some of these difficulties, a statistical assessment of existing multispectral imagers on geostationary (e.g., GOES)/Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite retrievals of the Cloud Droplet Effective Radius (Reff) showed significant biases especially at larger solar zenith angles, further motivating the use of ground based remote sensing approaches. In particular, we discuss the potential of using a combined Microwave Radiometer (MWR)-Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR) system for real-time monitoring of Cloud Optical Depth (COD) and Cloud Droplet Effective Radius (Reff), which are combined with aerosol vertical properties from an aerosol lidar. An iterative approach combining the simultaneous observations from MFRSR and MWR are used to retrieve the COD and Reff for thick cloud cases and are extensively validated using the DoE Southern Great Plains (SGP) retrievals as well as regression based parameterized model retrievals. In addition, we account for uncertainties in background aerosol, surface albedo and the combined measurement uncertainties from the MWR and MFRSR in order to provide realistic uncertainty estimates, which is found to be ~10% for the parameter range of interest in Aerosol-Cloud Interactions. Finally, we analyze a particular case of possible aerosol-cloud interaction described in the literature at the SGP site and demonstrate that aerosol properties obtained at the surface can lead to inconclusive results in comparison to lidar-derived aerosol properties near the cloud base.
We use two series of eight-month UHF radar observations collected during the dry and wet seasons of AMMA field campaign. The ultimate goal is to do preliminary work to know whether the lowest layers are suitable for wind energy applications. Surface wind is usually weak in West Africa, but the regular occurrence of a nocturnal low level jet (NLLJ) could provide interesting conditions for wind energy. This work is two-fold: it first aims at improving our knowledge about the NLLJ in West Africa regarding its structure and its variability during the year. Then, special attention is paid to the first 200 m agl, to study the possibility to use the sub-jet wind as a source of energy. A set of enhanced radio-soundings is taken to help to understand the dynamics and thermodynamics and to find a way to extrapolate the wind at low level, where the UHF radars do not provide data. 2012 Versita Warsaw and Springer-Verlag Wien.
We have extensively evaluated the response of cloud base drizzle rate (Rcb; mmd1) in warm clouds to liquid water path (LWP; gm2) and to cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) number concentration (NCCN; cm3), an aerosol proxy. This evaluation is based on a 19month long data set of Doppler radar, lidar, microwave radiometers, and aerosol observing systems from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility deployments at the Azores and in Germany. Assuming 0.55% supersaturation to calculate NCCN, we found a power law inline image, indicating that Rcb decreases by a factor of 23 as NCCN increases from 200 to 1000cm3 for fixed LWP. Additionally, the precipitation susceptibility to NCCN ranges between 0.5 and 0.9, in agreement with values from simulations and aircraft measurements. Surprisingly, the susceptibility of the probability of precipitation from our analysis is much higher than that from CloudSat estimates but agrees well with simulations from a multiscale high-resolution aerosol-climate model. Although scale issues are not completely resolved in the intercomparisons, our results are encouraging, suggesting that it is possible for multiscale models to accurately simulate the response of LWP to aerosol perturbations.
Observational evidence of two-way association between nocturnal boundary layer aerosols and cloud macrophysical properties over a tropical urban site is reported in this paper. The study has been conducted during 2008-09 employing a high space-time resolution polarimetric micro-pulse lidar over a tropical urban station in India. Firstly, the study highlights the crucial role of boundary layer aerosols and background meteorology on the formation and structure of low-level stratiform clouds in the backdrop of different atmospheric stability conditions. Turbulent mixing induced by the wind shear at the station, which is associated with a complex terrain, is found to play a pivotal role in the formation and structural evolution of nocturnal boundary layer clouds. Secondly, it is shown that the trapping of energy in the form of outgoing terrestrial radiation by the overlying low-level clouds can enhance the aerosol mixing height associated with the nocturnal boundary layer. To substantiate this, the long-wave heating associated with cloud capping has been quantitatively estimated in an indirect way by employing an Advanced Research Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF-ARW) model developed by National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), Colorado, USA, and supplementary data sets; and differentiated against other heating mechanisms. The present investigation as well establishes the potential of lidar remote-sensing technique in exploring some of the intriguing aspects of the cloud-environment relationship. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ground-based microwave radiometers (MWR) are becoming more and more common for remotely sensing the atmospheric temperature and humidity profile as well as path-integrated cloud liquid water content. The calibration accuracy of the state-of-the-art MWR HATPRO-G2 (Humidity And Temperature Profiler - Generation 2) was investigated during the second phase of the Radiative Heating in Underexplored Bands Campaign (RHUBC-II) in northern Chile (5320 m above mean sea level, 530 hPa) conducted by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program conducted between August and October 2009. This study assesses the quality of the two frequently used liquid nitrogen and tipping curve calibrations by performing a detailed error propagation study, which exploits the unique atmospheric conditions of RHUBC-II. Both methods are known to have open issues concerning systematic offsets and calibration repeatability. For the tipping curve calibration an uncertainty of +/-0.1 to +/-0.2 K (K-band) and +/-0.6 to +/-0.7 K (V-band) is found. The uncertainty in the tipping curve calibration is mainly due to atmospheric inhomogeneities and the assumed air mass correction for the Earth curvature. For the liquid nitrogen calibration the estimated uncertainty of +/-0.3 to +/-1.6 K is dominated by the uncertainty of the reflectivity of the liquid nitrogen target. A direct comparison between the two calibration techniques shows that for six of the nine channels that can be calibrated with both methods, they agree within the assessed uncertainties. For the other three channels the unexplained discrepancy is below 0.5 K. Systematic offsets, which may cause the disagreement of both methods within their estimated uncertainties, are discussed.
A satellite-based method of moisture and thermal budget analysis is examined in comparison with sounding array observations from Cooperative Indian Ocean experiment on Intraseasonal variability in the Year of 2011 (CINDY2011)/Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) (DYNAMO)/Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM) MJO Investigation Experiment (AMIE) and from the Tropical Ocean Global Atmosphere Coupled Ocean Atmosphere Response Experiment (TOGA COARE). Overall, the satellite analysis is found to quantitatively reproduce the statistical behaviors of large-scale mean vertical motion, moisture convergence, and moist static energy (MSE) convergence as observed from the sounding arrays. However, individual convective events generally do not delineate a systematic evolutionary track but are heavily spread around the ensemble mean of moisture and MSE convergences in composite space. Next, the convective events are broken down into "developing", "off-centered", and "passing-by" classes using geostationary infrared measurements in an attempt to sort irrelevant samples that are not representative of convective dynamics. All the three composite classes show qualitatively similar evolutions except for the amplitude of variability, with genuine developing events being greatest in amplitude and passing-by disturbances being weakest. The spread among individual events is substantially reduced when the convective events immune to strong synoptic-scale influences are isolated and the contribution of horizontal advection is excluded from MSE convergence.
The Department of Energy (DOE) created the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) has added instruments to expand its capabilities for the study of clouds, aerosol, and precipitation. The ARM sites provide a broad array of measurements covering cloud properties aerosol properties, surface properties, atmospheric thermodynamic properties, and radiative fluxes. These measurements are provided continuously with high temporal resolution despite the resolution of some of the remote sensing instruments being short to capture variability in cloud properties. The ARM Facility is managed and operated by nine DOE National Laboratories, located at Argonne, Berkeley, Brookhaven, Livermore, Los Alamos, Oak Ridge, National Renewable Energy, Pacific Northwest, and Sandia. It has developed and deployed its first ARM Mobile Facility (AMF) to improve its performance.
AbstractInformation on ice cloud particle nonsphericity is important for many practical applications ranging from modeling the cloud radiation impact to remote sensing of hydrometeor microphysical properties. Scanning cloud radars, which often measure depolarization ratio as a sole polarization variable, can provide a means for retrieving this information. The applicability of a spheroidal particle model (i.e., a regular ellipsoid that has two principal axes of the same length) is evaluated for describing depolarization properties of ice particles. It is shown that this simple model, which uses an aspect ratio as a single parameter characterizing particle nonsphericity, explains reasonably well the scatter of slant 45 linear depolarization ratio (SLDR) measurements versus direct estimates of the zenith direction backscatter enhancement observed during the Storm Peak Laboratory Cloud Property Validation Experiment (StormVEx) with the scanning W-band cloud radar (SWACR). Observed SLDR elevation angle patterns are also approximated reasonably well by this shape model. It is suggested that an SLDR difference between slant and zenith radar pointing can be used for prospective remote sensing methods of inferring particle aspect ratio from cloud radar depolarization measurements. Depending on mass?size relations, the value of this difference corresponding to median zenith reflectivity enhancement observed during StormVEx relates to aspect ratios of about 0.5  0.2, which generally agrees with typical aspect ratios of ice particles. Expected aspect ratio retrieval uncertainties within the spheroidal shape model and the use of different types of radar depolarization ratio measurements are discussed. A correction for estimated zenith direction reflectivity enhancements due to particle nonsphericity is suggested.
Scanning polarimetric W-band radar data were evaluated for the purpose of identifying predominant ice hydrometeor habits. Radar and accompanying cloud microphysical measurements were conducted during the Storm Peak Laboratory Cloud Property Validation Experiment held in Steamboat Springs, Colorado, during the winter season of 2010/11. The observed ice hydrometeor habits ranged from pristine and rimed dendrites/stellars to aggregates, irregulars, graupel, columns, plates, and particle mixtures. The slant 45 degrees linear depolarization ratio (SLDR) trends as a function of the radar elevation angle are indicative of the predominant hydrometeor habit/shape. For planar particles, SLDR values increase from values close to the radar polarization cross coupling of about -21.8 dB at zenith viewing to maximum values at slant viewing. These maximum values depend on predominant aspect ratio and bulk density of hydrometeors and also show some sensitivity to particle characteristic size. The highest observed SLDRs were around -8 dB for pristine dendrites. Unlike planar-type hydrometeors, columnar-type particles did not exhibit pronounced depolarization trends as a function of viewing direction. A difference in measured SLDR values between zenith and slant viewing can be used to infer predominant aspect ratios of planar hydrometeors if an assumption about their bulk density is made. For columnar hydrometeors, SLDR offsets from the cross-coupling value are indicative of aspect ratios. Experimental data were analyzed for a number of events with prevalence of planar-type hydrometeors and also for observations when columnar particles were the dominant species. A relatively simple spheroidal model and accompanying T-matrix calculations were able to approximate most radar depolarization changes with viewing angle observed for different hydrometeor types.
The shortwave radiative effect of an ice cloud observed over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program's Southern Great Plains site in Oklahoma is investigated. Airborne microphysical data from a cloud particle imager, optical array probes, and forward scattering probes are used to construct vertical profiles of the size and shape distributions of ice crystals. Due to uncertainties associated with measuring the sizes and shapes of small ice crystals with maximum dimensions less than 120 m, five alternate size-shape distributions are derived and combined with existing databases of wavelength-dependent single-scattering properties of idealized ice crystals to obtain vertical profiles of optical properties. The dependence of the surface and the top-of-the-atmosphere fluxes on these uncertainties is simulated with a radiative transfer model. In addition, surface fluxes are compared against measurements at the surface. It is found that the differences between the modeled and measured fluxes are too large to be explained by uncertainties in the shape and concentrations of small ice crystals. Sensitivity tests suggest that the discrepancies occur because the real optical thickness is larger than that derived from the aircraft profiles most of the time. When the optical thickness was derived based on modeled and measured direct fluxes, the modeled total downward flux agreed well with the measurements. Slightly (less than 10%) reducing the asymmetry parameter, which is possibly associated with the presence of surface roughness, air bubble inclusions or other nonidealities in ice crystals, may further improve the agreement with observations.
The diurnal variation of convection and associated cloud and radiative properties remains a significant issue in global NWP and climate models. This study analyzes observed diurnal variability of convection in a coastal monsoonal environment examining the interaction of convective rain clouds, their associated cloud properties, and the impact on the surface radiation and corresponding boundary layer structure during periods where convection is suppressed or active on the large scale. The analysis uses data from the Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) as well as routine measurements from the Australian Bureau of Meteorology and the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program. Both active monsoonal and large-scale suppressed (buildup and break) conditions are examined and demonstrate that the diurnal variation of rainfall is much larger during the break periods and the spatial distribution of rainfall is very different between the monsoon and break regimes. During the active monsoon the total net radiative input to the surface is decreased by more than 3 times the amount than during the break regime-this total radiative cloud forcing is found to be dominated by the shortwave (SW) cloud effects because of the much larger optical thicknesses and persistence of long-lasting anvils and cirrus cloud decks associated with the monsoon regime. These differences in monsoon versus break surface radiative energy contribute to low-level air temperature differences in the boundary layer over the land surfaces.
Cloud radiative effects on surface downwelling fluxes are investigated using datasets from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) sites in the tropical western Pacific Ocean (TWP) region. The Nauru Island (Republic of Nauru) and Darwin, Australia, sites show largevariability in sky cover, downwelling radiative fluxes, and surface cloud radiative effect (CRE) that is due to El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and the Australian monsoon, respectively, whereas the Manus Island (Papua New Guinea) site shows little intraseasonal or interannual variability. At Nauru, the average shortwave (SW) surface CRE varies from -38.2 W m-2 during La Nina conditions to -90.6 W m-2 during El Nino conditions. The average longwave (LW) CRE ranges from 9.5 to 15.8 W m-2 during La Nina and El Nino conditions, respectively. At Manus, the average SW and LW CREs vary by less than 5 and 2 W m-2, respectively, between the ENSO phases. The variability at Darwin is even larger than at Nauru, with average SW (LW) CRE ranging from -27.0 (8.6) W m-2 in the dry season to -95.8 (17.0) W m-2 in the wet season. Cloud radar measurements of cloud-base and cloud-top heights are used to define cloud types to examine the effect of cloud type on the surface CRE. Clouds with low bases contribute 71%-75% of the surface SW CRE and 66%-74% of the surface LW CRE at the three TWP sites, clouds with midlevel basescontribute 8%-9% of theSWCREand 12%-14% of theLWCRE, and clouds with high bases contribute 16%-19% of theSWCRE and 15%-21% of the LW CRE. 2013 American Meteorological Society.
Gamma distributions represent particle size distributions (SDs) in mesoscale and cloud-resolving models that predict one, two, or three moments of hydrometeor species. They are characterized by intercept (N0), slope (), and shape () parameters prognosed by such schemes or diagnosed based on fits to SDs measured in situ in clouds. Here, ice crystal SDs acquired in arctic cirrus during the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) and in hurricanes during the National Aeronautic and Space Administration (NASA) African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analyses (NAMMA) are fit to gamma distributions using multiple algorithms. It is shown that N0, , and are not independent parameters but rather exhibit mutual dependence. Although N0, , and are not highly dependent on choice of fitting routine, they are sensitive to the tolerance permitted by fitting algorithms, meaning a three-dimensional volume in N0-- phase space is required to represent a single SD. Depending on the uncertainty in the measured SD and on how well a gamma distribution matches the SD, parameters within this volume of equally realizable solutions can vary substantially, with N0, in particular, spanning several orders of magnitude. A method to characterize a family of SDs as an ellipsoid in N0-- phase space is described, with the associated scatter in N0-- for such families comparable to scatter in N0, and observed in prior field campaigns conducted in different conditions. Ramifications for the development of cloud parameterization schemes and associated calculations of microphysical process rates are discussed. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
The shapes of cloud particles with maximum dimensions Dmax between 35 and 60 mm in mixed-phase clouds were studied using high-resolution particle images collected by a cloud particle imager (CPI) during the Mixed-Phase Arctic Cloud Experiment (M-PACE) and the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC). The area ratio a, the projected area of a particle divided by the area of a circle with diameter D-max, quantified particle shape. The differing optical characteristics of CPIs used in M-PACE and ISDAC had no effect on derived a provided that D-max. 35 mu m and CPI focus. 45. The fraction of particles with 35, D-max, 60 mm with a. 0.8 increased with the ratio of liquid water content (LWC) to total water content (TWC). The average amean of small particles in each 10-s interval in mixed-phase clouds was correlated with LWC/TWC with a correlation coefficient of 0.60 for M-PACE and 0.43 for ISDAC. The stronger correlation seen during M-PACE was most likely associated with the presence of more liquid droplets that were larger than the CPI detection threshold contributing to alpha(mean); the modal effective radius was larger (11 vs 6 mu m), and drops with D > 35 mu mhad concentrations during M-PACE that were 6 times as large as those of ISDAC. This study hence suggests that area ratio can be used to identify the phase of particles with 35 < D-max < 60 mu m and questions the assumption used in previous studies that all particles in this size range are supercooled droplets.
A case of shallow cumulus and precipitating cumulus congestus sampled at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Southern Great Plains supersite during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment is analyzed using a multisensor observational approach and numerical simulation. Observations from a new radar suite surrounding the facility are used to characterize the evolving statistical behavior of the precipitating cloud system. This is accomplished using distributions of different measures of cloud geometry and precipitation properties. Large-eddy simulation (LES) with size-resolved (bin) microphysics is employed to determine the forcings most important in producing the salient aspects of the cloud system captured in the radar observations. Our emphasis is on assessing the importance of time-varying versus steady state large-scale forcing on the model's ability to reproduce the evolutionary behavior of the cloud system. Additional consideration is given to how the characteristic spatial scale and homogeneity of the forcing imposed on the simulation influences the evolution of cloud system properties. Results indicate that several new scanning radar estimates such as distributions of cloud top are useful to differentiate the value of time-varying (or at least temporally well-matched) forcing on LES solution fidelity.
A method to predict the bulk density of graupel rho(g) has been added to the two-moment Milbrandt-Yau bulk microphysics scheme. The simulation of graupel using the modified scheme is illustrated through idealized simulations of a mesoscale convective system using a 2D kinematic model with a prescribed flow field and different peak updraft speeds. To examine the relative impact of the various approaches to represent rimed ice, simulations were run for various graupel-only and graupel-plus-hail configurations. Because of the direct feedback of rho(g) to terminal fall speeds, the modified scheme produces a much different spatial distribution of graupel, with more mass concentrated in the convective region resulting in changes to the surface precipitation at all locations. With a strong updraft, the model can now produce solid precipitation at the surface in the convective region without a separate hail category. It is shown that a single rimed-ice category is capable of representing a realistically wide range of graupel characteristics in various atmospheric conditions without the need for a priori parameter settings. Sensitivity tests were conducted to examine various aspects of the scheme that affect the simulated rho(g). Specific parameterizations pertaining to other hydrometeor categories now have a direct impact on the simulation of graupel, including the assumed aerosol distribution for droplet nucleation, which affects the drop sizes of both cloud and rain, and the mass-size relation for snow, which affects its density and hence the embryo density of graupel converted from snow due to riming.
Continuous measurements of the shortwave (SW), longwave (LW), and net cross-atmosphere radiation flux divergence over the West African Sahel were made during the year 2006 using the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility (AMF) and the Geostationary Earth Radiation Budget (GERB) satellite. Accompanying AMF measurements enabled calculations of the LW, SW, and net top of the atmosphere (TOA) and surface cloud radiative forcing (CRF), which quantifies the radiative effects of cloud cover on the column boundaries. Calculations of the LW, SW, and net cloud radiative effect (CRE), which is the difference between the TOA and surface radiative flux divergences in all-sky and clear-sky conditions, quantify the radiative effects on the column itself. These measurements were compared to predictions in four global climate models (GCMs) used in the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report (IPCC AR4). All four GCMs produced wet and dry seasons, but reproducing the SW column radiative flux divergence was problematic in the GCMs and SW discrepancies translated into discrepancies in the net radiative flux divergence. Computing cloud-related quantities from the measurements produced yearly averages of the SW TOA CRF, surface CRF, and CRE of similar to-19, -83, and 47 W m(-2), respectively, and yearly averages of the LW TOA CRF, surface CRF, and CRE of similar to 39, 37, and 2 W m(-2). These quantities were analyzed in two GCMs and compensating errors in the SW and LW clear-sky, cross-atmosphere radiative flux divergence were found to conspire to produce somewhat reasonable predictions of the net clear-sky divergence. Both GCMs underestimated the surface LW and SW CRF and predicted near-zero SW CRE when the measured values were substantially larger (similar to 70 W m(-2) maximum).
Many inverse problems in the atmospheric sciences involve parameters with known physical constraints. Examples include nonnegativity (e. g., emissions of some urban air pollutants) or upward limits implied by reaction or solubility constants. However, probabilistic inverse modeling approaches based on Gaussian assumptions cannot incorporate such bounds and thus often produce unrealistic results. The atmospheric literature lacks consensus on the best means to overcome this problem, and existing atmospheric studies rely on a limited number of the possible methods with little examination of the relative merits of each. This paper investigates the applicability of several approaches to bounded inverse problems. A common method of data transformations is found to unrealistically skew estimates for the examined example application. The method of Lagrange multipliers and two Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods yield more realistic and accurate results. In general, the examined MCMC approaches produce the most realistic result but can require substantial computational time. Lagrange multipliers offer an appealing option for large, computationally intensive problems when exact uncertainty bounds are less central to the analysis. A synthetic data inversion of US anthropogenic methane emissions illustrates the strengths and weaknesses of each approach.
This study quantitatively estimates the spatial distribution of anthropogenic methane sources in the United States by combining comprehensive atmospheric methane observations, extensive spatial datasets, and a high-resolution atmospheric transport model. Results show that current inventories from the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research underestimate methane emissions nationally by a factor of similar to 1.5 and similar to 1.7, respectively. Our study indicates that emissions due to ruminants and manure are up to twice the magnitude of existing inventories. In addition, the discrepancy in methane source estimates is particularly pronounced in the south-central United States, where we find total emissions are similar to 2.7 times greater than in most inventories and account for 24 +/- 3% of national emissions. The spatial patterns of our emission fluxes and observed methane-propane correlations indicate that fossil fuel extraction and refining are major contributors (45 +/- 13%) in the south-central United States. This result suggests that regional methane emissions due to fossil fuel extraction and processing could be 4.9 +/- 2.6 times larger than in EDGAR, the most comprehensive global methane inventory. These results cast doubt on the US EPA's recent decision to downscale its estimate of national natural gas emissions by 25-30%. Overall, we conclude that methane emissions associated with both the animal husbandry and fossil fuel industries have larger greenhouse gas impacts than indicated by existing inventories.
Wetlands comprise the single largest global source of atmospheric methane, but current flux estimates disagree in both magnitude and distribution at the continental scale. This study uses atmospheric methane observations over North America from 2007 to 2008 and a geostatistical inverse model to improve understanding of Canadian methane fluxes and associated biogeochemical models. The results bridge an existing gap between traditional top-down, inversion studies, which typically emphasize total emission budgets, and biogeochemical models, which usually emphasize environmental processes. The conclusions of this study are threefold. First, the most complete process-based methane models do not always describe available atmospheric methane observations better than simple models. In this study, a relatively simple model of wetland distribution, soil moisture, and soil temperature outperformed more complex model formulations. Second, we find that wetland methane fluxes have a broader spatial distribution across western Canada and into the northern U.S. than represented in existing flux models. Finally, we calculate total methane budgets for Canada and for the Hudson Bay Lowlands, a large wetland region (50-60 degrees N, 75-96 degrees W). Over these lowlands, we find total methane fluxes of 1.80.24 Tg C yr(-1), a number in the midrange of previous estimates. Our total Canadian methane budget of 16.01.2 Tg C yr(-1) is larger than existing inventories, primarily due to high anthropogenic emissions in Alberta. However, methane observations are sparse in western Canada, and additional measurements over Alberta will constrain anthropogenic sources in that province with greater confidence.
The use of reflective surfaces offers one low-cost solution for reducing solar loading to urban environments and the Earth that should be considered as part of sustainable urban design. Here, we characterize the radiative benefits, i.e. the additional shortwave radiation leaving the atmosphere, from the installation of highly reflective 'cool' roofs in urban areas in India that face relatively large local aerosol burdens. We use a previously tested column radiative transfer model to estimate the energy per unit area reflected to space from increasing the surface albedo at six cities within India. The model is used to characterize radiative transfer each day over five years (2008-2012) based on mid-day satellite retrievals of MODIS aerosol depth, cloud water path, and average surface albedo and MERRA atmospheric profiles of temperature and composition. Compared against ten months of field observations in two cities, the model derived incoming surface shortwave radiation estimates relative to observations show small biases (0.5% and -2.6%, at Pantnagar and Nainital, respectively). Despite the high levels of local aerosols we found cool roofs provided significant radiative benefits at all locations. Averaged over the five year period we found that increasing the albedo of 1 m(2) of roof area by 0.5 would reflect to space 0.9-1.2 kWh daily from 08:30-15:30 LST, depending on location. This is equivalent to a constant forcing of 37-50Wm(-2) (equivalent to reducing CO2 emissions by 74 to 101 kg CO2 m(-2) roof area). Last, we identify a co-benefit of improving air quality, in that removing aerosols from the atmosphere could increase the radiative benefits from cool roofs by 23-74%, with the largest potential increase found at Delhi and the smallest change found at Nainital.
Comprehensive, ground-based observations from the US Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurements program Southern Great Plains site are used to study the variability of turbulence forcings and cloud-scale turbulence structures in a continental stratocumulus cloud. The turbulence observations are made from an upward facing cloud (35 GHz) Doppler radar. Cloud base and liquid water path are characterized using a lidar at the surface and a microwave radiometer. The turbulence characterizations are compared and contrasted with those observed in marine stratocumulus clouds. During the 16-h observation period used in this study the cloud-base and cloud-top heights evolve with time and changes in liquid water path observed by the radiometer are consistent with variations in cloud depth. Unlike marine stratocumulus clouds, a diurnal cycle of cloud thickness and liquid water path is not observed. The observed surface latent, sensible, and virtual sensible heat fluxes and the radiative fluxes exhibit a diurnal cycle with values increasing from sunrise to afternoon and decreasing afterwards. During the night, the sensible heat, virtual sensible heat and the net radiative fluxes at the surface are slightly negative. Solar radiative heating prevails in the cloud layer during the day and strong radiative cooling exists at cloud top even during the day. Unlike marine stratocumulus, surface heating described by the convective velocity scale Ws* and cloud-top cooling described by Wr* are both important in driving the in-cloud turbulence during the day, whereas cloud-top cooling is the exclusive contributor during the night. The combined Ws* and Wr* (the total velocity scale Wt* ) provides a useful way to track the evolution of the turbulence structure in the cloud. The variance of the radar-measured radial velocity, which is related to resolved turbulence, follows the diurnal cycle and is consistent with the total velocity scale Wt* variations. It is higher during the day and lower during the night, which is contrary to that in marine stratocumulus. The Wt* values are lowest around sunset when the radiative cooling is also small due to upper-level clouds observed above the low-level stratus. The vertical distribution of the variance results from the surface heating during the day and cloud-top cooling during the night. The squared spectrum width, which is related to turbulence structures within the radar sampling volume (unresolved turbulence) also follows the diurnal cycle. Its vertical distribution indicates that the unresolved turbulence more closely relates to the processes near cloud top. Turbulence in the cloud requires about an hour to respond to the external forcings of surface heating and cloud-top radiative cooling. Positive skewness prevails during the day and negative skewness prevails at night with a sharp transition around sunset. Resolved turbulence dominates near cloud base whereas unresolved turbulence dominates near cloud top. The turbulence characteristics and variability defined in this study can be used to evaluate the time evolution of turbulence structures in large eddy simulation forced by surface and cloud-top radiative forcings.
The climate sensitivity predicted in general circulation models can be sensitive to the treatment of the ice particle fall velocity. In this study, the mass-weighted ice fall speed (Vm) and the number concentration ice fall speed (Vn) in midlatitude cirrus clouds are computed from in situ measurements of ice particle area and number concentration made by the two-dimensional stereo probe during the Small Particles In Cirrus field campaign. For single-moment ice microphysical schemes, Vm and the ice particle size distribution effective diameter De were parameterized in terms of cloud temperature (T) and ice water content (IWC). For two-moment schemes, Vm and Vn were related to De and the mean maximum dimensionD, respectively. For single-moment schemes, although the correlations of Vm and De with T were higher than the correlations of Vm and De with IWC, it is demonstrated that Vm and De are better predicted by using both T and IWC. The parameterization relating Vm to T and IWC is compared with another scheme relating Vm to T and IWC, with the latter based on millimeter cloud radar measurements. Regarding two-moment ice microphysical schemes, a strong correlation was found between De and Vm and betweenD and Vn owing to their similar weightings by ice particle mass and number concentration, respectively. Estimating Vm from De makes Vm a function of IWC and projected area, realistically coupling Vm with both the cloud microphysics and radiative properties.
Biomass burning aerosols from the tropical savanna of Northern Australia constitute a globally significant aerosol source, with impacts on regional climate and air quality. Knowledge of the seasonal cycle and spatial distribution of this aerosol is required for its realistic representation in models of global climate, and to help define the role of this region in the global carbon cycle. This paper presents a decadal climatology of these aerosols, based on Sun photometer records from three stations in the Australian tropics, over the period 1998-2012. The monthly time series shows enhanced aerosol emissions following prodigious wet seasons, two of which occurred during the study period. The monthly climatology shows the expected peak during the late dry season (September-November), when most burning takes place, with clear evidence of the dominant modulating effect of fine-particle smoke emission apparent from the annual cycle of the angstrom ngstrom exponent, a proxy for particle size. The aerosol levels during the early dry season are higher at the northern Top End stations than at the south-westerly Kimberley station. The time variation of aerosol optical depth is highly correlated between all three station pairs, with a correlation coefficient r(2)>0.75 at monthly resolution between all pairs. This high correlation between widely separated stations declines only gradually as the filtering interval is reduced, suggesting remarkably high coherence in the emission and transport of biomass burning aerosol across the entire region.
AbstractAn algorithm was developed to estimate planetary boundary layer (PBL) heights from hourly archived wind profiler data from the NOAA Profiler Network (NPN) sites located throughout the central United States. Unlike previous studies, the present algorithm has been applied to a long record of publicly available wind profiler signal backscatter data. Under clear conditions, summertime averaged hourly time series of PBL heights compare well with Richardson-number based estimates at the few NPN stations with hourly temperature measurements. Comparisons with clear sky reanalysis based estimates show that the wind profiler (WP) PBL heights are lower by approximately 250-500 m. The geographical distribution of daily maximum PBL heights corresponds well with the expected distribution based on patterns of surface temperature and soil moisture. Wind profiler PBL heights were also estimated under mostly cloudy conditions, and are generally comparable to the Richardson number based PBL heights and higher than the reanalysis PBL heights. WP PBL heights have a smaller clear-cloudy condition difference than either of the other two. The algorithm presented here is shown to provide a reliable summertime climatology of daytime hourly PBL heights throughout the central United States.
In this paper, the overall quality of the water vapor profiles of global operational radiosonde data for the period 2000-2009 is investigated using upper tropospheric humidity (UTH) retrieved from microwave satellite data. Overall, the nighttime radiosonde data showed a dry bias ( -5% to -15%) over Europe, Australia, and New Zealand and systematically moist bias (greater than 30%) over China and the former Soviet Union. The nighttime sonde data from the U.S. and Canada showed a bias between -10% and 20%. Most stations indicated a daytime radiation dry bias, except for a few stations from the U.S. and the former Soviet Union. A sensorwise comparison showed a large nighttime wet bias for the Russian (MRZ-3A and MARS) and Chinese GZZ-2 sensors, a relatively small nighttime wet bias for the U.S. Sippican and VIZ-B2 sensors, and a nighttime dry bias for the Chinese GTS1, Vaisala (RS80-A, RS80-H, RS90, RS92K, and RS92-SGP), and the U.S. VIZ-MKII sensors. All sensors had a daytime radiation dry bias, except for the Russian MRZ-3A sensor that had a daytime radiation wet bias that could be because of the daytime radiation bias correction. Because of the large differences between different radiosonde sensors, it is essential for UTH studies to only use the data measured using a single type of sensor at any given station.
Ground-based remote-sensing observations from Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) and Cloud-Net sites are used to evaluate the clouds predicted by a weather forecasting and climate model. By evaluating the cloud predictions using separate measures for the errors in frequency of occurrence, amount when present, and timing, we provide a detailed assessment of the model performance, which is relevant to weather and climate time-scales. Importantly, this methodology will be of great use when attempting to develop a cloud parametrization scheme, as it provides a clearer picture of the current deficiencies in the predicted clouds.Using the Met Office Unified Model, it is shown that when cloud fractions produced by a diagnostic and a prognostic cloud scheme are compared, the prognostic cloud scheme shows improvements to the biases in frequency of occurrence of low, medium and high cloud and to the frequency distributions of cloud amount when cloud is present. The mean cloud profiles are generally improved, although it is shown that in some cases the diagnostic scheme produced misleadingly good mean profiles as a result of compensating errors in frequency of occurrence and amount when present. Some biases remain when using the prognostic scheme, notably the underprediction of mean ice cloud fraction due to the amount when present being too low, and the overprediction of mean liquid cloud fraction due to the frequency of occurrence being too high. Copyright 2011 Royal Meteorological Society and British Crown Copyright, the Met Office.
A cloud system-resolving model (the Weather Research and Forecasting model) with 1 km horizontal grid spacing is used to investigate the response of an idealized supercell storm to increased cloud droplet concentrations associated with polluted conditions. The primary focus is on exploring robustness of simulated aerosol effects in the face of complex process interactions and feedbacks between the cloud microphysics and dynamics. Simulations are run using sixteen different model configurations with various microphysical or thermodynamic processes modified or turned off. Robustness of the storm response to polluted conditions is also explored for each configuration by performing additional simulations with small perturbations to the initial conditions. Differences in the domain-mean accumulated surface precipitation and convective mass flux between polluted and pristine conditions are small for almost all model configurations, with relative differences in each quantity generally less than 15 %. Configurations that produce a decrease (increase) in cold pool strength in polluted conditions also tend to simulate a decrease (increase) in surface precipitation and convective mass flux. Combined with an analysis of the dynamical and thermodynamic fields, these results indicate the importance of interactions between microphysics, cold pool evolution, and dynamics along outflow boundaries in explaining the system response. Several model configurations, including the baseline, produce an overall similar storm response (weakening) in polluted conditions despite having different microphysical or thermodynamic processes turned off. With hail initiation turned off or the hail fallspeed-size relation set to that of snow, the model produces an invigoration instead of weakening of the storm in polluted conditions. These results highlight the difficulty of foreseeing impacts of changes to model parameterizations and isolating process interactions that drive the system response to aerosols. Overall, these findings are robust, in a qualitative sense, to small perturbations in the initial conditions. However, there is sensitivity in the magnitude, and in some cases sign, of the storm response to polluted conditions with small perturbations in the temperature of the thermal used to initiate convection (less than +/- 0.5 K) or the vertical shear of the environmental wind (+/- 5 %). It is concluded that reducing uncertainty in simulations of aerosol effects on individual deep convective storms will likely require ensemble methods in addition to continued improvement of model parameterizations.
A cloud-system-resolving model is used to investigate the effects of localized heating/cooling perturbations on tropical deep convection, in the context of the aerosol invigoration effect. This effect supposes that a reduction of droplet collision-coalescence in polluted conditions leads to lofting of cloud water in convective updrafts and enhanced freezing, latent heating, and buoyancy. To specifically isolate and test this mechanism, heating perturbations were applied to updrafts with corresponding cooling applied in downdrafts. Ensemble simulations were run with either perturbed or unperturbed conditions and large-scale forcing from a 7.5-day period of active monsoon conditions during the 2006 Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment. In the perturbed simulations there was an initial invigoration of convective updrafts and surface precipitation, but convection returned to its unperturbed state after about 24 h because of feedback with the larger-scale environment. This feedback led to an increase in the horizontally averaged mid-/upper-tropospheric temperature of about 1 K relative to unperturbed simulations. When perturbed conditions were applied to only part of the domain, gravity waves rapidly dispersed buoyancy anomalies in the perturbed region to the rest of the domain, allowing convective invigoration from the heating perturbations to be sustained over the entire simulation period. This was associated with a mean mesoscale circulation consisting of ascent (descent) at mid-/upper levels in the perturbed (unperturbed) region. In contrast to recent studies, it is concluded that the invigoration effect is intimately coupled with larger-scale dynamics through a two-way feedback, and in the absence of alterations in the larger-scale circulation there is limited invigoration beyond the convective adjustment time scale.
We analyze three cloud-resolving model simulations of a strong convective event observed during the TWP-ICE campaign, differing in dynamical core, microphysical scheme or both. Based on simulated and observed radar reflectivity, simulations roughly reproduce observed convective and stratiform precipitating areas. To identify the characteristics of convective and stratiform drafts that are difficult to observe but relevant to climate model parameterization, independent vertical wind speed thresholds are calculated to capture 90% of total convective and stratiform updraft and downdraft mass fluxes. Convective updrafts are fairly consistent across simulations (likely owing to fixed large-scale forcings and surface conditions), except that hydrometeor loadings differ substantially. Convective downdraft and stratiform updraft and downdraft mass fluxes vary notably below the melting level, but share similar vertically uniform draft velocities despite differing hydrometeor loadings. All identified convective and stratiform downdrafts contain precipitation below similar to 10 km and nearly all updrafts are cloudy above the melting level. Cold pool properties diverge substantially in a manner that is consistent with convective downdraft mass flux differences below the melting level. Despite differences in hydrometeor loadings and cold pool properties, convective updraft and downdraft mass fluxes are linearly correlated with convective area, the ratio of ice in downdrafts to that in updrafts is similar to 0.5 independent of species, and the ratio of downdraft to updraft mass flux is similar to 0.5-0.6, which may represent a minimum evaporation efficiency under moist conditions. Hydrometeor loading in stratiform regions is found to be a fraction of hydrometeor loading in convective regions that ranges from similar to 10% (graupel) to similar to 90% (cloud ice). These findings may lead to improved convection parameterizations.
In situ microphysical observations of midlatitude cirrus collected during the Department of Energy Small Particles in Cirrus (SPARTICUS) field campaign are combined with an atmospheric state classification for the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site to understand statistical relationships between cirrus microphysics and the large-scale meteorology. The atmospheric state classification is informed about the large-scale meteorology and state of cloudiness at the ARM SGP site by combining ECMWF ERA-Interim reanalysis data with 14 years of continuous observations from the millimeter-wavelength cloud radar. Almost half of the cirrus cloud occurrences in the vicinity of the ARM SGP site during SPARTICUS can be explained by three distinct synoptic conditions, namely, upper level ridges, midlatitude cyclones with frontal systems, and subtropical flows. Probability density functions (PDFs) of cirrus microphysical properties such as particle size distributions (PSDs), ice number concentrations, and ice water content (IWC) are examined and exhibit striking differences among the different synoptic regimes. Generally, narrower PSDs with lower IWC but higher ice number concentrations are found in cirrus sampled in upper level ridges, whereas cirrus sampled in subtropical flows, fronts, and aged anvils show broader PSDs with considerably lower ice number concentrations but higher IWC. Despite striking contrasts in the cirrus microphysics for different large-scale environments, the PDFs of vertical velocity are not different, suggesting that vertical velocity PDFs are a poor predictor for explaining the microphysical variability in cirrus. Instead, cirrus microphysical contrasts may be driven by differences in ice supersaturations or aerosols.
Cirrus clouds are ubiquitous in the upper troposphere and still constitute one of the largest uncertainties in climate predictions. This paper evaluates cloud-resolving model (CRM) and cloud system-resolving model (CSRM) simulations of a midlatitude cirrus case with comprehensive observations collected under the auspices of the Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM) program and with spaceborne observations from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration A-train satellites. The CRM simulations are driven with periodic boundary conditions and ARM forcing data, whereas the CSRM simulations are driven by the ERA-Interim product. Vertical profiles of temperature, relative humidity, and wind speeds are reasonably well simulated by the CSRM and CRM, but there are remaining biases in the temperature, wind speeds, and relative humidity, which can be mitigated through nudging the model simulations toward the observed radiosonde profiles. Simulated vertical velocities are underestimated in all simulations except in the CRM simulations with grid spacings of 500m or finer, which suggests that turbulent vertical air motions in cirrus clouds need to be parameterized in general circulation models and in CSRM simulations with horizontal grid spacings on the order of 1km. The simulated ice water content and ice number concentrations agree with the observations in the CSRM but are underestimated in the CRM simulations. The underestimation of ice number concentrations is consistent with the overestimation of radar reflectivity in the CRM simulations and suggests that the model produces too many large ice particles especially toward the cloud base. Simulated cloud profiles are rather insensitive to perturbations in the initial conditions or the dimensionality of the model domain, but the treatment of the forcing data has a considerable effect on the outcome of the model simulations. Despite considerable progress in observations and microphysical parameterizations, simulating the microphysical, macrophysical, and radiative properties of cirrus remains challenging. Comparing model simulations with observations from multiple instruments and observational platforms is important for revealing model deficiencies and for providing rigorous benchmarks. However, there still is considerable need for reducing observational uncertainties and providing better observations especially for relative humidity and for the size distribution and chemical composition of aerosols in the upper troposphere.
This study introduces a statistical comparison of vertical velocity observations within cirrus from aircraft and ground-based Doppler cloud radar. Two cases of midlatitude anvil cirrus forming under very similar environmental conditions are examined. The case studies benefit from simultaneous observations of vertical velocities in cirrus collected at and around the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site during the U.S. Department of Energy Small Particles in Cirrus field campaign. Observations from both platforms suggest that the majority of vertical velocities in the examined midlatitude anvil cirrus cases are roughly within 1 m s(-1) although higher vertical velocities are occasionally observed. The quality of the vertical velocity comparison between in situ aircraft measurements and ground-based Doppler radar retrievals depends on the case. For the first case on 23 April 2010, the comparison suggests that the radar retrieval may underestimate vertical velocities in the range between roughly 50 cm s(-1) and 1 m s(-1). For the second case on 14 June 2010, the agreement between radar and aircraft is excellent, and the differences are largely within the observed variability of vertical velocities within cirrus. Differences in the spatial scales of vertical velocities and turbulence sampled by the aircraft and Doppler radar, which arise due to differences in the temporal resolution of the observational platforms are not found to explain the observed discrepancies. Estimates for the dissipation rate of turbulent kinetic energy agree to within 1 order of magnitude between the two observational platforms.
The inclusion of the direct and indirect radiative effects of aerosols in high-resolution global numerical weather prediction (NWP) models is being increasingly recognised as important for the improved accuracy of short-range weather forecasts. In this study the impacts of increasing the aerosol complexity in the global NWP configuration of the Met Office Unified Model (MetUM) are investigated. A hierarchy of aerosol representations are evaluated including three-dimensional monthly mean speciated aerosol climatologies, fully prognostic aerosols modelled using the CLASSIC aerosol scheme and finally, initialised aerosols using assimilated aerosol fields from the GEMS project. The prognostic aerosol schemes are better able to predict the temporal and spatial variation of atmospheric aerosol optical depth, which is particularly important in cases of large sporadic aerosol events such as large dust storms or forest fires. Including the direct effect of aerosols improves model biases in outgoing long-wave radiation over West Africa due to a better representation of dust. However, uncertainties in dust optical properties propagate to its direct effect and the subsequent model response. Inclusion of the indirect aerosol effects improves surface radiation biases at the North Slope of Alaska ARM site due to lower cloud amounts in high-latitude clean-air regions. This leads to improved temperature and height forecasts in this region. Impacts on the global mean model precipitation and large-scale circulation fields were found to be generally small in the short-range forecasts. However, the indirect aerosol effect leads to a strengthening of the low-level monsoon flow over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal and an increase in precipitation over Southeast Asia. Regional impacts on the African Easterly Jet (AEJ) are also presented with the large dust loading in the aerosol climatology enhancing of the heat low over West Africa and weakening the AEJ. This study highlights the importance of including a more realistic treatment of aerosol-cloud interactions in global NWP models and the potential for improved global environmental prediction systems through the incorporation of more complex aerosol schemes.
Ice storms are an infrequent but significant hazard in the U.S southern Great Plains. Common synoptic profiles for freezing precipitation reveal advection of low-level warm moist air from the Gulf of Mexico (GOM), above a shallow Arctic air mass ahead of a midlevel trough. Because the GOM is the proximal basin and major moisture source, this study investigates impacts of varying GOM sea surface temperature (SST) on the thermodynamic evolution of a winter storm that occurred during 28-30 January 2010, with particular emphasis on the modulation of freezing precipitation. A high-resolution, nested ARW sensitivity study with a 3.3-km inner domain is performed, using six representations of GOM SST, including control, climatological mean, uniform 2C from control, and physically constrained upper- and lower-bound basin-average anomalies from a 30-yr dataset. The simulations reveal discernable impacts of SST on the warm-layer inversion, precipitation intensity, and low-level dynamics. Whereas total precipitation for the storm increased monotonically with SST, the freezing-precipitation response was more varied and nonlinear, with the greatest accumulation decreases occurring for the coolest SST perturbation, particularly at moderate precipitation rates. Enhanced precipitation and warm-layer intensity promoted by warmer SST were offset for the highest perturbations by deepening of the weak 850-hPa low circulation and faster eastward progression associated with enhanced baroclinicity and diabatic generation of potential vorticity. Air-parcel trajectories terminating within the freezing-precipitation region were examined to identify airmass sources and modification. These results suggest that GOM SST can affect the severity of concurrent ice-storm events in the southern Great Plains, with warmer basin SST potentially exacerbating the risk of damaging ice accumulations. 2016 American Meteorological Society.
We present measurements acquired by the world's first airborne 3 backscatter (beta)+ 2 extinction (alpha) High Spectral Resolution Lidar (HSRL-2). HSRL-2 measures particle backscatter coefficients at 355, 532, and 1064 nm, and particle extinction coefficients at 355 and 532 nm. The instrument has been developed by the NASA Langley Research Center. The instrument was operated during Phase 1 of the Department of Energy (DOE) Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP) in July 2012. We observed pollution outflow from the northeastern coast of the US out over the western Atlantic Ocean. Lidar ratios were 50-60 sr at 355 nm and 6070 sr at 532 nm. Extinction-related Angstrom exponents were on average 1.2-1.7, indicating comparably small particles. Our novel automated, unsupervised data inversion algorithm retrieved particle effective radii of approximately 0.2 mu m, which is in agreement with the large Angstrom exponents. We find good agreement with particle size parameters obtained from coincident in situ measurements carried out with the DOE Gulfstream-1 aircraft.
Newsom, R. K., D. D. Turner and J. E. M. Goldsmith. (2013). "Long-Term Evaluation of Temperature Profiles Measured by an Operational Raman Lidar." Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology 30(8):1616-1634 DOI: 10.1175/jtech-d-12-00138.1     This study investigates the accuracy and calibration stability of temperature profiles derived from an operational Raman lidar over a 2-yr period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2010. The lidar, which uses the rotational Raman technique for temperature measurement, is located at the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site near Billings, Oklahoma. The lidar performance specifications, data processing algorithms, and the results of several test runs are described. Calibration and overlap correction of the lidar is achieved using simultaneous and collocated radiosonde measurements. Results show that the calibration coefficients exhibit no significant long-term or seasonal variation but do show a distinct diurnal variation. When the diurnal variation in the calibration is not resolved the lidar temperature bias exhibits a significant diurnal variation. Test runs in which only nighttime radiosonde measurements are used for calibration show that the lidar exhibits a daytime warm bias that is correlated with the strength of the solar background signal. This bias, which reaches a maximum of similar to 2.4 K near solar noon, is reduced through the application of a correction scheme in which the calibration coefficients are parameterized in terms of the solar background signal. Comparison between the corrected lidar temperatures and the noncalibration radiosonde temperatures show a negligibly small median bias of -0.013 K for altitudes below 10 km AGL. The corresponding root-mean-square difference profile is roughly constant at similar to 2 K below 6 km AGL and increases to about 4.5 K at 10 km AGL.
One source of uncertainty that thwarts accurate and comprehensive representation of present and future climate processes in models is the role of marine stratocumulus clouds. In particular, clouds that prevail over the eastern subtropical oceans have proven to play a critical role in boundary layer dynamics and in the global climate. Azores have been identified as having the mix condition for research on the life cycle and characteristics of marine startocumulos clouds and for a better understanding of the complex ocean atmosphere interactions. The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Climate Research Program from the Department of Energy (DOE), with 20 years of operations, has been providing data to advance research from atmospheric observations at diverse climatic regimes around the world. Since 2009 Azores has been included in this global program. The campaign of the ARM Mobile Facility at Graciosa Island, Azores, in the context of the Clouds, Aerosol and Precipitation in the Marine Boundary Layer (CAP-MBL) project, added the most extensive and comprehensive dataset of marine boundary layer (MBL) clouds to date. Solid preliminary findings an valuable data sets have been used since that to promote a true climatology of marine cloud structure over the north Atlantic. As a result, the facility becomes a fixed site on the 1st of October of 2013 and has joined the fixed network of the ARM Climate Research Facilities around the world. Identified broadly as the Eastern North Atlantic (ENA), this user facility has augmented the measurement capability with the addition of a Ka-/W-Band scanning cloud radar, a X-Band precipitation radar, Doppler lidar and an extensive set of radiometric measurements and routine radiosonde soundings, which, taken together, provide a three-dimensional view of the atmospheric phenomena, some of them poorly understood until now.
The Arctic is experiencing an unprecedented increase in surface air temperature and decrease in sea ice extent. The causes of these changes are still being debated; radiative fluxes are believed to play an important role in this warming. The primary motivation for this study is to advance the quality and resolution of currently available information on surface shortwave (solar) irradiance (SWR) for the Arctic. Such information is needed to meet the challenge for accurate estimates of heat input into the open waters. An inference scheme that utilizes the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) observations is optimized for high latitudes and implemented at 5 km for 2007 at an hourly time scale. Evaluation of the 5 km based SWR estimates against hourly ground observations at Barrow site shows a mean bias of 7.9 W m-2 (3% of mean values), a standard deviation of 58.2 W m-2 (23% of mean value), and a high correlation of 0.95. Evaluation of the SWR estimates against daily ground measurements at these latitudes shows good agreement with surface observations at three sites, with a mean bias of 1.9 W m-2 (1.1% of mean values), a standard deviation of 31.5 W m-2 (17.8% of mean value), and a high correlation of 0.96. Information at this high resolution and good quality can lead to improved estimates of heat input into the complex Arctic domain. For the Beaufort Sea domain (70N-80N, 120E-50E), the differences can amount to 116 MJ m-2 (~7%) of the total solar input of this region.
Satellite estimates of surface shortwave radiation (SWR) at high latitudes agree less with ground observations than at other locations; moreover, ground observations at such latitudes are scarce. The comprehensive observations of radiative fluxes made since 1977 by the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program at the Barrow North Slope of Alaska (NSA) site are unique. They provide an opportunity to revisit accuracy estimates of remote sensing products at these latitudes, which are problematic because the melting of snow/ice and lower solar elevation make the satellite retrievals more difficult. A newly developed inference scheme for deriving SWR from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS; Terra and Aqua) that utilizes updated information on surface properties over snow and sea ice will be evaluated against these ground measurements and compared with other satellite and model products. Results show that the MODIS-based estimates are in good agreement with observations, with a bias of -5.3 W m-2 (-4% of mean observations) for the downward SWR, a bias of -5.3 W m-2 (-7%) for upward SWR, a bias of 1 (1%) for net SWR, and a bias of -0.001 (0%) for surface albedo. As such, the MODIS estimates of SWR can be useful for numerical model evaluations and for estimating the energy budgets at high latitudes.
Images acquired by a Cloud Particle Imager (CPI) are analyzed to compile a statistical covariance function of radius for an ensemble of small, irregular, quasi-spherical ice crystals in tropical cirrus measured during the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment. The infrequent occurrence of multiple particles in single CPI frames suggests that most crystals sampled were natural ice crystals rather than artifacts from large particles shattering on probe tips. The covariance function is used in conjunction with the Gaussian random sphere geometry to generate threedimensional model ice particles for ray-optics simulations at 550-nm wavelength. The crystal shapes and single-scattering properties are compared with those obtained by the same methodology for midlatitude cirrus sampled over Oklahoma. The small tropical ice crystals are closer to spherical than their midlatitude counterparts and, consequently, their asymmetry parameters are larger, but the differences are not significant from the standpoint of climate studies. Because some quasi-spherical ice crystals seem partially faceted, a convex hull transformation is introduced that increases the asymmetry parameter from 0.785 to 0.808. Further modifying the covariance function to promote sixfold symmetry in the model crystals increases the asymmetry parameter to 0.818. The introduction of internal scatterers, such as air bubbles, has a larger impact, decreasing the asymmetry parameter by up to tens of percent, depending on their amount and characteristics. Unfortunately, no data are available to determine realistic values for the internal scatterers to assess their likely actual impact.
This report is the second in a series of companion papers describing the effects of atmospheric light scattering in observations of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) by the Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT), in orbit since 23 January 2009. Here we summarize the retrievals from six previously published algorithms; retrieving column-averaged dry air mole fractions of CO2 (X-CO2) during 22 months of operation of GOSAT from June 2009. First, we compare data products from each algorithm with ground-based remote sensing observations by Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON). Our GOSAT-TCCON coincidence criteria select satellite observations within a 5 degrees radius of 11 TCCON sites. We have compared the GOSAT-TCCON X-CO2 regression slope, standard deviation, correlation and determination coefficients, and global and station-to-station biases. The best agreements with TCCON measurements were detected for NIES 02.xx and RemoTeC. Next, the impact of atmospheric light scattering on X-CO2 retrievals was estimated for each data product using scan by scan retrievals of light path modification with the photon path length probability density function (PPDF) method. After a cloud pre-filtering test, approximately 25% of GOSAT soundings processed by NIES 02.xx, ACOS B2.9, and UoL-FP: 3G and 35% processed by RemoTeC were found to be contaminated by atmospheric light scattering. This study suggests that NIES 02.xx and ACOS B2.9 algorithms tend to overestimate aerosol amounts over bright surfaces, resulting in an underestimation of X-CO2 for GOSAT observations. Cross-comparison between algorithms shows that ACOS B2.9 agrees best with NIES 02.xx and UoL-FP: 3G while RemoTeC X-CO2 retrievals are in a best agreement with NIES PPDF-D. Citation: Oshchepkov, S., et al. (2013), Effects of atmospheric light scattering on spectroscopic observations of greenhouse gases from space. Part 2: Algorithm intercomparison in the GOSAT data processing for CO2 retrievals over TCCON sites, J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 118, 1493-1512, doi:10.1002/jgrd.50146.
This paper presents an improved photon path length probability density function method that permits simultaneous retrievals of column-average greenhouse gas mole fractions and light path modifications through the atmosphere when processing high-resolution radiance spectra acquired from space. We primarily describe the methodology and retrieval setup and then apply them to the processing of spectra measured by the Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT). We have demonstrated substantial improvements of the data processing with simultaneous carbon dioxide and light path retrievals and reasonable agreement of the satellite-based retrievals against ground-based Fourier transform spectrometer measurements provided by the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON). (C) 2013 Optical Society of America
Microphysical processes in shallow Arctic precipitation clouds are illustrated using measurements of differential reflectivity ZDR from the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program polarimetric X-band radar deployed in Barrow, Alaska. X-band hemispheric range height indicator scans used in conjunction with Ka-band radar and lidar measurements revealed prolonged periods dominated by vapor depositional, riming, and/or aggregation growth. In each case, ice precipitation fell through at least one liquid-cloud layer in a seeder-feeder situation before reaching the surface.Along period of sustained low radar reflectivity ZH(,0-5 dBZ) and high ZDR(6-7.5 dB) throughout the depth of the cloud and subcloud layer, coinciding with observations of large pristine dendrites at the surface, suggests vapor depositional growth of large dendrites at low number concentrations. In contrast, ZDRvalues decreased to 2-3 dB in the mean profile when surface precipitation was dominated by aggregates or rimed dendrites. Small but consistent differences in zenith Ka-band radar Doppler velocity and lidar depolarization measurements were found between aggregation- and riming-dominated periods. The clean Arctic environment can enhance ZDRsignals relative to more complex midlatitude cases, producing higher values. 2016 American Meteorological Society.
Large-eddy simulations of mixed-phase Arctic clouds by 11 different models are analyzed with the goal of improving understanding and model representation of processes controlling the evolution of these clouds. In a case based on observations from the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC), it is found that ice number concentration, Ni, exerts significant influence on the cloud structure. Increasing Ni leads to a substantial reduction in liquid water path (LWP), in agreement with earlier studies. In contrast to previous intercomparison studies, all models here use the same ice particle properties (i.e., mass-size, mass-fall speed, and mass-capacitance relationships) and a common radiation parameterization. The constrained setup exposes the importance of ice particle size distributions (PSDs) in influencing cloud evolution. A clear separation in LWP and IWP predicted by models with bin and bulk microphysical treatments is documented and attributed primarily to the assumed shape of ice PSD used in bulk schemes. Compared to the bin schemes that explicitly predict the PSD, schemes assuming exponential ice PSD underestimate ice growth by vapor deposition and overestimate mass-weighted fall speed leading to an underprediction of IWP by a factor of two in the considered case. Sensitivity tests indicate LWP and IWP are much closer to the bin model simulations when a modified shape factor which is similar to that predicted by bin model simulation is used in bulk scheme. These results demonstrate the importance of representation of ice PSD in determining the partitioning of liquid and ice and the longevity of mixed-phase clouds. Key Points Constrained LES of mixed-phase Arctic clouds from 11 models are analyzed Ice water path differences are attributed to assumed ice size distributions Bulk schemes with gamma size distributions agree better with bin schemes 2014. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
Shipborne aerosol measurements collected from October 2012 to September 2013 along 36 transects between the port of Los Angeles, California (33.7N, 118.2), and Honolulu, Hawaii (21.3N, 157.8W), during the Marine ARM GPCI (Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment (GEWEX)-Cloud System Study (GCSS)-Pacific Cross-section Intercomparison) Investigation of Clouds campaign are analyzed to determine the circulation patterns that modulate the synoptic and monthly variability of cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) in the boundary layer. Seasonal changes in CCN are evident, with low magnitudes during autumn/winter, and high CCN during spring/summer accompanied with a characteristic westward decrease. CCN monthly evolution is consistent with satellite-derived cloud droplet number concentration Nd from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer. One-point correlation (r) analysis between the 1000hPa zonal wind time series over a region between 125W and 135W, 35N and 45N, and the Nd field yields a negative r (up to 0.55) over a domain that covers a zonal extent of at least 20 from the California shoreline, indicating that Nd decreases when the zonal wind intensifies. The negative r expands southwestward as the zonal wind precedes Nd by up to 3days, suggesting a transport mechanism from the coast of North America mediated by the California low-coastal jet, which intensifies in summer when the aerosol concentration and Nd reach a maximum. A first assessment of aerosol-cloud interaction (ACI) is performed by combining CCN and satellite Nd values from the Fifteenth Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite. The CCN-Nd correlation is 0.660.69, and the ACI metric defined as ACI=ln(Nd)/ln(CCN) is high at 0.9, similar to other aircraft-based studies and substantially greater than those inferred from satellites and climate models.
In the paper, we propose a new method of identifying the clear sky based on the Atmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer (AERI). Using the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility (AFM) dataset in Shouxian in 2008, we simulate the downwelling radiances on the surface in the 8-12 m window region using Line-By-Line Radiative Transfer Model (LBLRTM), and compare the results with the AERI radiances. The differences larger (smaller) than 3 mW (cm2 sr cm-1)-1 suggest a cloudy (clear) sky. Meanwhile, we develop the new algorithms for retrieving the zenith equivalent cloud base height (CBHe) and the equivalent emissivity (e ), respectively. The retrieval methods are described as follows. (1) An infinitely thin and isothermal blackbody cloud is simulated by the LBLRTM. The cloud base height (H) is adjusted iteratively to satisfy the situation that the contribution of the blackbody to the downwelling radiance is equal to that of realistic cloud. The final H is considered as CBHe. The retrieval results indicate that the differences between the CBHe and observational cloud base height (CBH) are much smaller for thick low cloud, and increase with the increasing CBH. (2) An infinitely thin and isothermal gray body cloud is simulated by the LBLRTM, with the CBH specified as the observed value. The cloud base emissivity (c) is adjusted iteratively until the contribution of the gray body to the downwelling radiance is the same as that of realistic cloud. The corresponding c is e . The average e for the low, middle, and high cloud is 0.967, 0.781, and 0.616 for the 50 cases, respectively. It decreases with the increasing CBH. The retrieval results will be useful for studying the role of cloud in the radiation budget in the window region and cloud parameterizations in the climate model.
In the paper, we propose a new method of identifying the clear sky based on the Atmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer (AERI). Using the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility (AFM) dataset in Shouxian in 2008, we simulate the downwelling radiances on the surface in the 8-12 mu m window region using Line-By-Line Radiative Transfer Model (LBLRTM), and compare the results with the AERI radiances. The differences larger (smaller) than 3 mW (cm(2) sr cm(-1))(-1) suggest a cloudy (clear) sky. Meanwhile, we develop the new algorithms for retrieving the zenith equivalent cloud base height (CBHe) and the equivalent emissivity (E > (e) ), respectively. The retrieval methods are described as follows. (1) An infinitely thin and isothermal blackbody cloud is simulated by the LBLRTM. The cloud base height (H) is adjusted iteratively to satisfy the situation that the contribution of the blackbody to the downwelling radiance is equal to that of realistic cloud. The final H is considered as CBHe. The retrieval results indicate that the differences between the CBHe and observational cloud base height (CBH) are much smaller for thick low cloud, and increase with the increasing CBH. (2) An infinitely thin and isothermal gray body cloud is simulated by the LBLRTM, with the CBH specified as the observed value. The cloud base emissivity (E > (c) ) is adjusted iteratively until the contribution of the gray body to the downwelling radiance is the same as that of realistic cloud. The corresponding E > (c) is E > (e) . The average E > (e) for the low, middle, and high cloud is 0.967, 0.781, and 0.616 for the 50 cases, respectively. It decreases with the increasing CBH. The retrieval results will be useful for studying the role of cloud in the radiation budget in the window region and cloud parameterizations in the climate model.
The absorption of shortwave (SW) radiation by clouds is a topic surrounded by contradictory reports and controversy. Some studies have shown large discrepancies between observed SW absorption and absorption predicted by models, while others have found no significant difference. In this study, values of column SW absorptance obtained by combining collocated top-of-atmosphere (TOA) and surface observations at an island site in the tropical western Pacific are compared to radiative transfer model (RTM) output. To compensate for the field of view difference between satellite and surface instruments, the surface data are averaged over time. Scatterplots and statistical measures show that there is a significant discrepancy between models and observations with the RTMs apparently underestimating SW absorptance. The large variability of the absorptance computed from the observations, including negative values, suggests that the field of view mismatch between satellite and surface observations remains even after averaging of the surface data. This mismatch may contribute to the observation-model bias. In previous observational studies showing highly enhanced absorption compared to models, the slope of a linear fit to dTOA/dT (the derivative of TOA albedo with respect to transmittance) was used to quantify cloud SW absorption, while nonlineanty of dTOA/dT was interpreted as a sign of sampling issues. Here the models produce a steeper slope (about -0.9) than observations (-0.6 to -0.8), indicating that models predict too little cloud SW absorption. However, when the surface observations are averaged over a longer period, their slope grows steeper, and the root-mean-square difference between linear and quadratic fits to dTOA/dT is reduced. This implies that insufficient averaging of surface data contributes to the observed SW absorption discrepancy. Reexamination of the observational data using the difference between cloud fraction estimated from satellite and surface measurements as an estimate of field of view mismatch supports this hypothesis. High measured absorptance values are shown to correspond to occasions of large field of view mismatch. When such data are excluded, the difference between the linear and quadratic fits is reduced, and the slope of the best fit line becomes steeper. We conclude that averaging surface data over 3 h or less is not always sufficient to eliminate sampling issues. However, the possibility that shortcomings of the RTMs contribute to the discrepancy in SW absorption values cannot be excluded.
In this study the long-term trends of non-refractory submicrometer aerosol (NR-PM1) composition and mass concentration measured by an Aerosol Chemical Speciation Monitor (ACSM) at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) site are discussed. NR-PM1 data was recorded at ~30 min intervals over a period of 19 months between November 2010 and June 2012. Positive Matrix Factorization (PMF) was performed on the measured organic mass spectral matrix using a rolling window technique to derive factors associated with distinct sources, evolution processes, and physiochemical properties. The rolling window approach also allows us to capture the dynamic variations of the chemical properties in the organic aerosol (OA) factors over time. Three OA factors were obtained including two oxygenated OA (OOA) factors, differing in degrees of oxidation, and a biomass burning OA (BBOA) factor. Back trajectory analyses were performed to investigate possible sources of major NR-PM1 species at the SGP site. Organics dominated NR-PM1 mass concentration for the majority of the study with the exception of winter, when ammonium nitrate increases due to transport of precursor species from surrounding urban and agricultural areas and also due to cooler temperatures. Sulfate mass concentrations have little seasonal variation with mixed regional and local sources. In the spring BBOA emissions increase and are mainly associated with local fires. Isoprene and carbon monoxide emission rates were obtained by the Model of Emissions of Gases and Aerosols from Nature (MEGAN) and the 2011 U.S. National Emissions Inventory to represent the spatial distribution of biogenic and anthropogenic sources, respectively. The combined spatial distribution of isoprene emissions and air mass trajectories suggest that biogenic emissions from the southeast contribute to SOA formation at the SGP site during the summer. [All rights reserved Elsevier].
In this study the long-term trends of non-refractory submicrometer aerosol (NR-PM1) composition and mass concentration measured by an Aerosol Chemical Speciation Monitor (ACSM) at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) site are discussed. NR-PM1 data was recorded at ~30min intervals over a period of 19 months between November 2010 and June 2012. Positive Matrix Factorization (PMF) was performed on the measured organic mass spectral matrix using a rolling window technique to derive factors associated with distinct sources, evolution processes, and physiochemical properties. The rolling window approach also allows us to capture the dynamic variations of the chemical properties in the organic aerosol (OA) factors over time. Three OA factors were obtained including two oxygenated OA (OOA) factors, differing in degrees of oxidation, and a biomass burning OA (BBOA) factor. Back trajectory analyses were performed to investigate possible sources of major NR-PM1 species at the SGP site. Organics dominated NR-PM1 mass concentration for the majority of the study with the exception of winter, when ammonium nitrate increases due to transport of precursor species from surrounding urban and agricultural areas and also due to cooler temperatures. Sulfate mass concentrations have little seasonal variation with mixed regional and local sources. In the spring BBOA emissions increase and are mainly associated with local fires. Isoprene and carbon monoxide emission rates were obtained by the Model of Emissions of Gases and Aerosols from Nature (MEGAN) and the 2011 U.S. National Emissions Inventory to represent the spatial distribution of biogenic and anthropogenic sources, respectively. The combined spatial distribution of isoprene emissions and air mass trajectories suggest that biogenic emissions from the southeast contribute to SOA formation at the SGP site during the summer. 2015 Elsevier Ltd.
While recent laboratory experiments have thoroughly quantified the ice nucleation efficiency of different aerosol species, the resulting ice nucleation parameterizations have not yet been extensively evaluated in models on different scales. Here the implementation of an immersion freezing parameterization based on laboratory measurements of the ice nucleation active surface site density of mineral dust and ice nucleation active bacteria, accounting for nucleation scavenging of ice nuclei, into a cloud-resolving model with two-moment cloud microphysics is presented. We simulated an Arctic mixed-phase stratocumulus cloud observed during Flight 31 of the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign near Barrow, Alaska. Through different feedback cycles, the persistence of the cloud strongly depends on the ice number concentration. It is attempted to bring the observed cloud properties, assumptions on aerosol concentration, and composition and ice formation parameterized as a function of these aerosol properties into agreement. Depending on the aerosol concentration and on the ice crystal properties, the simulated clouds are classified as growing, dissipating, and quasi-stable. In comparison to the default ice nucleation scheme, the new scheme requires higher aerosol concentrations to maintain a quasi-stable cloud. The simulations suggest that in the temperature range of this specific case, mineral dust can only contribute to a minor part of the ice formation. The importance of ice nucleation active bacteria and possibly other ice formation modes than immersion freezing remains poorly constrained in the considered case, since knowledge on local variations in the emissions of ice nucleation active organic aerosols in the Arctic is scarce.
C-band polarimetric radar measurements spanning two wet seasons are used to study the effects of the large-scale environment on the statistical properties of stratiform and convective rainfall around Darwin, Australia. The rainfall physical properties presented herein are the reflectivity fields, daily rainfall accumulations and raining area, rain rates, and drop size distribution (DSD) parameters (median volume diameter and normalized intercept parameter). Each of these properties is then analyzed according to five different atmospheric regimes and further separated into stratiform or convective rain categories following a DSD-based approach. The regimes, objectively identified by radiosonde thermodynamic and wind measurements, represent typical wet-season atmospheric conditions: the active monsoon regime, the break periods, the buildup regime, the trade wind regime, and a mixture of inactive/break periods. The large-scale context is found to strongly modulate rainfall and cloud microphysical properties. For example, during the active monsoon regime, the daily rain accumulation is higher than in the other regimes, while this regime is associated with the lowest rain rates. Precipitation in this active monsoon regime is found to be widespread and mainly composed of small particles in high concentration compared to the other regimes. Vertical profiles of reflectivity and DSD parameters suggest that warm rain processes are dominant during this regime. In contrast, rainfall properties in the drier regimes (trade wind/buildup regimes) are mostly of continental origin, with rain rates higher than in the moister regimes. In these drier regimes, precipitation is mainly formed of large raindrops in relatively low concentration due to a larger contribution of the ice microphysical processes on the rainfall formation.
C-band polarimetric radar measurements spanning two wet seasons are used to perform a critical evaluation of two algorithms for the classification of stratiform and convective precipitation. The first approach is based on the horizontal texture of the radar reflectivity field (two classes: stratiform, convective), and the second approach is based on the properties of the drop size distribution (DSD) parameters as derived from a set of polarimetric variables (three classes: stratiform, mixed, convective). To investigate how well those two methods compare quantitatively, probability density functions of reflectivity, rain rate, 5-dBZ echo top height, and DSD parameters (namely, the median volume diameter and the generalized intercept parameter) are built. The study found that while the two methods agree well on the identification of stratiform precipitation, large differences are obtained for convective rainfall. The texture-based approach seems to classify too many points as being of convective nature compared to the DSD-based method. Among the points that are classified as convective by the texture-based approach, 25% correspond to low concentration of relatively small particles associated with rain rates below 10 mm h(-1). This large proportion of unrealistically low convective rain rates is not produced by the DSD-based approach, which only classifies 4% of the convective points with rain rates below 10 mm h(-1). These points were found to be mainly isolated points embedded within stratiform precipitation and associated with low cloud-top height, suggesting a misclassification of the texture-based approach. Thus, to improve the statistics of the convective class, three modified equations of the peakedness criterion used in the radar-based algorithm are proposed to decrease the number of misclassified points.
In this paper we present comparisons of Aerosol Robotic Network (AERONET) precipitable water vapor (W) retrievals from Sun photometers versus radiosonde observations and other ground-based retrieval techniques such as microwave radiometry (MWR) and GPS. The comparisons make use of the extensive measurements made within the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM), mainly at their permanent sites located at the Southern Great Plains (Oklahoma, U.S.), Nauru Islands, and Barrow (Alaska, U.S.). These places experience different types of weather which allows the comparison of W under different conditions. Radiosonde and microwave radiometry data were provided by the ARM program while the GPS data were obtained from the SOUMINET network. In general, W obtained by AERONET is lower than those obtained by MWR and GPS by similar to 6.0-9.0% and similar to 6.0-8.0%, respectively. The AERONET values are also lower by approximately 5% than those obtained from the numerous balloon-borne radiosondes launched at the Southern Great Plains. These results point toward a consistent dry bias in the retrievals of W by AERONET of approximately 5-6% and a total estimated uncertainty of 12-15%. Differences with respect to MWR retrievals are a function of solar zenith angle pointing toward a possible bias in the MWR retrievals. Finally, the ability of AERONET precipitable water vapor retrievals to provide long-term records of W in diverse climate regimes is demonstrated.
Four model intercomparisons were run and evaluated using the TWP-ICE field campaign, each involving different types of atmospheric model. Here we highlight what can be learnt from having single-column model (SCM), cloud-resolving model (CRM), global atmosphere model (GAM) and limited-area model (LAM) intercomparisons all based around the same field campaign. We also make recommendations for anyone planning further large multi-model intercomparisons to ensure they are of maximum value to the model development community. CRMs tended to match observations better than other model types, although there were exceptions such as outgoing long-wave radiation. All SCMs grew large temperature and moisture biases and performed worse than other model types for many diagnostics. The GAMs produced a delayed and significantly reduced peak in domain-average rain rate when compared to the observations. While it was shown that this was in part due to the analysis used to drive these models, the LAMs were also driven by this analysis and did not have the problem to the same extent. Based on differences between the models with parametrized convection (SCMs and GAMs) and those without (CRMs and LAMs), we speculate that that having explicit convection helps to constrain liquid water whereas the ice contents are controlled more by the representation of the microphysics. This article is published with the permission of the Controller of HMSO and the Queen's Printer for Scotland. 2013 Royal Meteorological Society.
Four model intercomparisons were run and evaluated using the TWP-ICE field campaign, each involving different types of atmospheric model. Here we highlight what can be learnt from having single-column model (SCM), cloud-resolving model (CRM), global atmosphere model (GAM) and limited-area model (LAM) intercomparisons all based around the same field campaign. We also make recommendations for anyone planning further large multi-model intercomparisons to ensure they are of maximum value to the model development community. CRMs tended to match observations better than other model types, although there were exceptions such as outgoing long-wave radiation. All SCMs grew large temperature and moisture biases and performed worse than other model types for many diagnostics. The GAMs produced a delayed and significantly reduced peak in domain-average rain rate when compared to the observations. While it was shown that this was in part due to the analysis used to drive these models, the LAMs were also driven by this analysis and did not have the problem to the same extent. Based on differences between the models with parametrized convection (SCMs and GAMs) and those without (CRMs and LAMs), we speculate that that having explicit convection helps to constrain liquid water whereas the ice contents are controlled more by the representation of the microphysics.
Four model intercomparisons were run and evaluated using the TWP-ICE field campaign, each involving different types of atmospheric model. Here we highlight what can be learnt from having single-column model (SCM), cloud-resolving model (CRM), global atmosphere model (GAM) and limited-area model (LAM) intercomparisons all based around the same field campaign. We also make recommendations for anyone planning further large multi-model intercomparisons to ensure they are of maximum value to the model development community. CRMs tended to match observations better than other model types, although there were exceptions such as outgoing long-wave radiation. All SCMs grew large temperature and moisture biases and performed worse than other model types for many diagnostics. The GAMs produced a delayed and significantly reduced peak in domain-average rain rate when compared to the observations. While it was shown that this was in part due to the analysis used to drive these models, the LAMs were also driven by this analysis and did not have the problem to the same extent. Based on differences between the models with parametrized convection (SCMs and GAMs) and those without (CRMs and LAMs), we speculate that that having explicit convection helps to constrain liquid water whereas the ice contents are controlled more by the representation of the microphysics.
Multi-instrument, ground-based measurements provide unique and comprehensive data sets of the atmosphere for a specific location over long periods of time and resulting data compliment past and existing global satellite observations. This paper explores the effect of ice hydrometeors on ground-based, high-frequency passive microwave measurements and attempts to isolate an ice signature for summer seasons at Summit, Greenland, from 2010 to 2013. Data from a combination of passive microwave, cloud radar, radiosonde, and ceilometer were examined to isolate the ice signature at microwave wavelengths. By limiting the study to a cloud liquid water path of 40aEuro-gaEuro-m(-2) or less, the cloud radar can identify cases where the precipitation was dominated by ice. These cases were examined using liquid water and gas microwave absorption models, and brightness temperatures were calculated for the high-frequency microwave channels: 90, 150, and 225aEuro-GHz. By comparing the measured brightness temperatures from the microwave radiometers and the calculated brightness temperature using only gas and liquid contributions, any residual brightness temperature difference is due to emission and scattering of microwave radiation from the ice hydrometeors in the column. The ice signature in the 90, 150, and 225aEuro-GHz channels for the Summit Station summer months was isolated. This measured ice signature was then compared to an equivalent brightness temperature difference calculated with a radiative transfer model including microwave single-scattering properties for several ice habits. Initial model results compare well against the 4 years of summer season isolated ice signature in the high-frequency microwave channels.
This study examines several observational aspects of land-atmosphere coupling on daily average time scales during warm seasons of the years 1997 to 2008 at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) Central Facility site near Lamont, Oklahoma. Characteristics of the local land-atmosphere coupling are inferred by analyzing the covariability of selected land and atmospheric variables that include precipitation and soil moisture, surface air temperature, relative humidity, radiant and turbulent fluxes, as well as low-level cloud base height and fractional coverage. For both the energetic and hydrological aspects of this coupling, it is found that large-scale atmospheric forcings predominate, with local feedbacks of the land on the atmosphere being comparatively small much of the time. The relatively weak land feedbacks are manifested especially by (1) the inability of soil moisture to comprehensively impact the coupled land-atmosphere energetics and (2) the limited recycling of local surface moisture under conditions where most of the rainfall derives from convective cells that originate at remote locations. There is some evidence, nevertheless, that the local land feedback becomes stronger as the soil dries out in the aftermath of precipitation events, or on days when the local boundary layer clouds are influenced by thermal updrafts associated with convection that originates at the surface. Potential implications of these results for climate-model representation of regional land-atmosphere coupling also are discussed.
Meteorological processes that are measured at high temporal frequencies require nonstandard statistical models to adequately characterize their observed behavior. We examine this problem through the specific example of a nonstationary, bivariate process-the high-frequency changes in surface temperature and dew point-conditionally on the average hourly level of relative humidity, magnitude of minute-to-minute changes in wind direction, and presence of sunlight. One particularly interesting aspect of this process is that dew point is bounded above by temperature, and so a part of the modeler's challenge is to characterize the joint behavior as temperature approaches dew point (or equivalently as relative humidity approaches 100%). The data analyzed are from early May from the years 2003 through 2012 at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Southern Great Plains site in Northern Oklahoma, at the central facility near Lamont, Oklahoma. Our model gives a parametric description of how the spectral matrix of the process varies with covariates over blocks of time. The spectral approach allows for convenient and interpretable models of bivariate processes in time, and our model captures many of the observed changes in the behavior of the process. Copyright (C) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Collocated active and passive remote sensing measurements collected at U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program sites enable simultaneous retrieval of cloud and precipitation properties and air motion. Previous studies indicate the parameters of a bimodal cloud particle size distribution can be effectively constrained using a combination of passive microwave radiometer and radar observations; however, aspects of the particle size distribution and particle shape are typically assumed to be known. In addition, many retrievals assume the observation and retrieval error statistics have Gaussian distributions and use least squares minimization techniques to find a solution. In truth, the retrieval error characteristics are largely unknown. Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods can be used to produce a robust estimate of the probability distribution of a retrieved quantity that is nonlinearly related to the measurements and that has non-Gaussian error statistics. In this work, an MCMC algorithm is used to explore the error characteristics of cloud property retrievals from surface-based W-band radar and low-frequency microwave radiometer observations for a case of orographic snowfall. In this particular case, it is found that a combination of passive microwave radiometer measurements with radar reflectivity and Doppler velocity is sufficient to constrain the liquid and ice particle size distributions, but only if the width parameter of the assumed gamma particle size distribution and mass-dimensional relationships are specified. If the width parameter and mass-dimensional relationships are allowed to vary realistically, a unique retrieval of the liquid and ice particle size distribution for this orographic snowfall case is rendered far more problematic. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
Variability of the cloud population in the central equatorial Indian Ocean was observed in the context of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) during the Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (DYNAMO) and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Madden-Julian Investigation Experiment (AMIE) field campaigns. Radar observations from the polarimetric S-band radar on Addu Atoll in the Maldives characterize the types of convective and stratiform radar echoes and the heights their 20 dBZ contours reach. To gain insight into the relationship between clouds and humidification of the troposphere leading up to and during an active MJO event, the work relates variability of the observed precipitation structure to that of tropospheric humidity and upper level zonal wind. The variability in stratiform precipitation areas dominates variability in the nature of precipitating convection associated with the MJO. Areal coverage of precipitating radar echo, convective echo top height, and tropospheric humidity above 850 hPa rapidly increase over similar to 3-7 days near MJO onset. This rate of increase is substantially faster than the 10-20 days needed for buildup of moisture prior to MJO onset as hypothesized by the "discharge-recharge" hypothesis. Convective echoes become more common during the days prior to MJO onset, and the increased convection occurs before low-tropospheric moistening. The upper troposphere rapidly moistens as the first widespread stratiform region passes over an area. Thus, clouds likely play a role in tropospheric humidification. Whether increased low-tropospheric humidity causes vertical growth of convection has not yet been determined.
Anomalies of eastward propagating large-scale vertical motion with ~30day variability at Addu City, Maldives, move into the Indian Ocean from the west and are implicated in Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) convective onset. Using ground-based radar and large-scale forcing data derived from a sounding array, typical profiles of environmental heating, moisture sink, vertical motion, moisture advection, and Eulerian moisture tendency are computed for periods prior to those during which deep convection is prevalent and those during which moderately deep cumulonimbi do not form into deep clouds. Convection with 37km tops is ubiquitous but present in greater numbers when tropospheric moistening occurs below 600hPa. Vertical eddy convergence of moisture in shallow to moderately deep clouds is likely responsible for moistening during a 37day long transition period between suppressed and active MJO conditions, although moistening via evaporation of cloud condensate detrained into the environment of such clouds may also be important. Reduction in large-scale subsidence, associated with a vertical velocity structure that travels with a dry eastward propagating zonal wavenumbers 11.5 structure in zonal wind, drives a steepening of the lapse rate below 700hPa, which supports an increase in moderately deep moist convection. As the moderately deep cumulonimbi moisten the lower troposphere, more deep convection develops, which itself moistens the upper troposphere. Reduction in large-scale subsidence associated with the eastward propagating feature reinforces the upper tropospheric moistening, helping to then rapidly make the environment conducive to formation of large stratiform precipitation regions, whose heating is critical for MJO maintenance.
Vertically pointing millimeter-wavelength radar observations of anvil clouds extending from mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) that pass over an Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) field site in Niamey, Niger, are compared to anvil structures generated by the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) mesoscale model using six different microphysical schemes. The radar data provide the statistical distribution of the radar reflectivity values as a function of height and anvil thickness. These statistics are compared to the statistics of the modeled anvil cloud reflectivity at all altitudes. Requiring the model to be statistically accurate at all altitudes is a stringent test of the model performance. The typical vertical profile of radiative heating in the anvil clouds is computed from the radar observations. Variability of anvil structures from the different microphysical schemes provides an estimate of the inherent uncertainty in anvil radiative heating profiles. All schemes underestimate the optical thickness of thin anvils and cirrus, resulting in a bias of excessive net anvil heating in all of the simulations.
We compare cirrus presence and heights (CTHs) using oblique stereo by the Multiangle Imaging SpectroRadiometer (MISR) with measurements from ground-based cloud radar and lidar sensors at the Tropical Western Pacific (TWP) sites operated by the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program. Precise point-wise comparisons, limited to only 195 coincident cases, showed that the total number of cirrus retrieved using oblique-stereo analysis improved to 70% from 39% using the standard-stereo technique. The stereo technique detects cloud with the highest contrast, which is often at lower altitude. The oblique-stereo technique's efficiency depends on the thickness and number of underlying cloud layers. A histogram approach allowed similar regions to be compared statistically with many more samples and showed three distinct peaks at approximate to 13km, 15km, and 19km related to deep convective clouds, tropical tropopause layer (TTL) cirrus, and overshooting convective clouds, respectively. Most differences between the satellite and ground-based measurements resulted from a number of cases of invalid cloud comparisons (14%), blunders from edges and broken clouds (7%), low contrast stereo mismatches (4%), and under-estimation of CTHs (3%). Overall, the oblique-stereo analysis detected a cirrus-top layer in 65% of all the valid coincident cases, mostly <1km in thickness. The oblique-stereo derived cirrus CTHs differed from the heights of cirrus-top layers from ground-based cloud radar and lidar by -0.51.0km, validating the MISR retrievals. This suggests global thin cirrus retrievals are possible with the oblique-stereo technique after the screening of occasional blunders.
Doppler radar measurements at different frequencies (50 and 2835 MHz) are used to characterize the terminal fall speed of hydrometeors and the vertical air motion in tropical ice clouds and to evaluate statistical methods for retrieving these two parameters using a single vertically pointing cloud radar. For the observed vertical air motions, it is found that the mean vertical air velocity in ice clouds is small on average, as is assumed in terminal fall speed retrieval methods. The mean vertical air motions are slightly negative (downdraft) between the melting layer (5-km height) and 6.3-km height, and positive (updraft) above this altitude, with two peaks of 6 and 7 cm s-1 at 7.7and 9.7-km height. For the retrieved hydrometeor terminal fall speeds, it is found that the variability of terminal fall speeds within narrow reflectivity ranges is typically within the acceptable uncertainties for using terminal fall speeds in ice cloud microphysical retrievals. This study also evaluates the performance of previously published statistical methods of separating terminal fall speed and vertical air velocity from vertically pointing Doppler radar measurements using the 50-/2835-MHz radar retrievals as a reference. It is found that the variability of the terminal fall speed-radar reflectivity relationship (Vt-Ze) is large in ice clouds and cannot be parameterized accurately with a single relationship. A well-defined linear relationship is found between the two coefficients of a power-law Vt-Ze relationship, but a more accurate microphysical retrieval is obtained using Doppler velocity measurements to better constrain the Vt-Ze relationship for each cloud. When comparing the different statistical methods to the reference, the distribution of terminal fall speed residual is wide, with most residuals being in the 30-40 cm s-1 range about the mean. The typical mean residual ranged from 15 to 20 cm s-1, with different methods having mean residuals of 10 cm s-1 at some heights, but not at the same heights for all methods. The so-called V,-Ze technique was the most accurate above 9-km height, and the running-mean technique outperformed the other techniques below 9-km height. Sensitivity tests of the running-mean technique indicate that the 20-min average is the best trade-off for the type of ice clouds considered in this analysis. A new technique is proposed that incorporates simple averages of Doppler velocity for each (Ze, H) couple in a given cloud. This technique, referred to as DOP-Ze-H, was found to outperform the three other methods at most heights, with a mean terminal fall residual of 10 cm s-1 at all heights. This error magnitude is compatible with the use of such retrieved terminal fall speeds for the retrieval of microphysical properties.
Cold pools are integral components of squall-line mesoscale convective systems and the West African monsoon, but are poorly represented in operational global models. Observations of 38 cold pools made at Niamey, Niger, during the 2006 African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) campaign (1 June-30 September 2006), are used to generate a seasonal characterization of cold pool properties by quantifying related changes in surface meteorological variables. Cold pools were associated with temperature decreases of 2-14C, pressure increases of 0-8 hPa, and wind gusts of 3-22 m s-1. Comparison with published values of similar variables from the U.S. Great Plains showed comparable differences. The leading part of most cold pools had decreased water vapor mixing ratios compared to the environment, with moister air, likely related to precipitation, approximately 30 min behind the gust front. A novel diagnostic used to quantify how consistent observed cold pool temperatures are with saturated or unsaturated descent from midlevels [fractional evaporational energy deficit (FEED)] shows that early season cold pools are consistent with less saturated descents. Early season cold pools were relatively colder, windier, and wetter, consistent with drier midlevels, although this was only statistically significant for the change in moisture. Late season cold pools tended to decrease equivalent potential temperature from the pre-cold pool value, whereas earlier in the season changes were smaller, with more increases. The role of cold pools may therefore change through the season, with early season cold pools more able to feed subsequent convection. 2016 American Meteorological Society.
In this study, the authors incorporate an operational-like irrigation scheme into the Noah land surface model as part of the Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF). A series of simulations, with and without irrigation, is conducted over the Southern Great Plains (SGP) for an extremely dry (2006) and wet (2007) year. The results show that including irrigation reduces model bias in soil moisture and surface latent heat (LH) and sensible heat (SH) fluxes, especially during a dry year. Irrigation adds additional water to the surface, leading to changes in the planetary boundary layer. The increase in soil moisture leads to increases in the surface evapotranspiration and near-surface specific humidity but decreases in the SH and surface temperature. Those changes are local and occur during daytime. There is an irrigation-induced decrease in both the lifting condensation level (Z(LCL)) and mixed-layer depth. The decrease in Z(LCL) is larger than the decrease in mixed-layer depth, suggesting an increasing probability of shallow clouds. The simulated changes in precipitation induced by irrigation are highly variable in space, and the average precipitation over the SGP region only slightly increases. A high correlation is found among soil moisture, SH, and Z(LCL). Larger values of soil moisture in the irrigated simulation due to irrigation in late spring and summer persist into the early fall, suggesting that irrigation-induced soil memory could last a few weeks to months. The results demonstrate the importance of irrigation parameterization for climate studies and improve the process-level understanding on the role of human activity in modulating land-air-cloud interactions.
We present a new algorithm that simultaneously retrieves aerosol properties and land surface bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) over Australian from Advanced Along-Track Scanning Radiometer images. Three key components are addressed: 1) an analytical radiative transfer formulation, based on Green's function, linking top-of-atmosphere (TOA) reflectance to the surface BRDF; 2) a novel approach to modeling BRDF using an extended compositing period; and 3) a set of representative aerosol models based on a published typology of Australian aerosols. Due to the generally low aerosol loadings and widespread bright surfaces over Australia, BRDF modeling is crucial. By using a 9-month compositing period, 90% of the Australian continent can be modeled with an error in the forward-to-nadir reflectance ratio of 2.5% or less. Comparison with suitably processed Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer BRDF/albedo products demonstrates satisfactory agreement. For the studying period from 2002 to 2008, validation of aerosol optical depth (AOD) against eight sun photometers across Australia encompassing widely different atmospheric and surface regimes shows high accuracy, with a mean absolute error in AOD at 550 nm of 0.03 and a bias of 0.007. About 60% of the matchup points are within an absolute error of 0.03, 80% are within 0.05, and 96% are within 0.1. The algorithm selects for each cell an optimal aerosol type from a set of four predefined candidate models. Continental aerosol maps derived from the new method indicate broadscale agreement with known seasonal aerosol sources, while providing new insights into the spatial and temporal distributions of aerosol over the Australian continent.
In this study, the characteristics of the Arctic mixed-phase cloud (AMC) have been investigated using data collected at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement North Slope Alaska site from October 2006 to September 2009. AMC has an annual occurrence frequency of 42.3%, which includes 18.7% of single-layered AMCs and 23.6% for multiple layers. Two cloud base heights (CBHs) are defined from ceilometer and micropulse lidar (MPL) measurements. For single-layered AMC, the ceilometer-derived CBH represents the base of the liquid-dominant layer near the cloud top, while MPL-derived CBH represents base of the lower ice-dominant layer. The annual mean CBHs from ceilometer and MPL measurements are 1.0km and 0.6km, respectively, with the largest difference (similar to 1.0km) occurring from December to March and the smallest difference in September. The humidity inversion occurrence decreases with increasing humidity inversion intensity (stronger in summer than in winter). During the winter months, AMC occurrences increase from 15% to 35% when the inversion intensity increases from 0.1 to 0.9g/kg. On the contrary, despite a higher frequency of strong humidity inversion in summer, AMC occurrences are nearly invariant for different inversion intensities. On average, humidity and temperature inversion frequencies of occurrence above an AMC are 5 and 8 times, respectively, as high as those below an AMC. The strong inversion occurrences for both humidity and temperature above an AMC provide the moisture sources from above for the formation and maintenance of AMCs. This result helps to reconcile the persistency of AMCs even when the Arctic surface is covered by snow and ice.
The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program held its first mobile facility (AMF) field campaigns in Shouxian in eastern China. Based on the AMF data, we studied the radiative properties of aerosols in late autumn and early winter. The results show that aerosols and clouds decreased the surface total radiation flux (RF) by 27.5% and the shortwave (SW) RF by 30.8%. The aerosol radiative effect (ARE) in late autumn and early winter calculated is about -24.9 W/m2. In addition, we compared the AMF data with MODIS datasets in a 1 1 degree box. The net SW errors of Terra and Aqua were 97.4 and 30.0 w/m2. The net LW errors were 17.4 W/m2 and 21.4 W/m2, respectively. The differences of the errors between Terra and Aqua were caused by the different zenith angles and the different atmospheric aerosol and vapor backgrounds during the satellite overpasses.
In this study we reexamine nearly four decades of in situ balloon-based stratospheric observations of SF6 and CO2 with an idealized model and reanalysis products. We use new techniques to account for the spatial and temporal inhomogeneity of the sparse balloon profiles and to calculate stratospheric mean ages of air more consistently from the observations with the idealized model. By doing so we are able to more clearly show and account for the variability of mean age of air throughout the bulk of the depth of the stratosphere. From an idealized model guided by the observations, we identify variability in the mean age due to the seasonal cycle of stratospheric transport, the quasi-biennial oscillation in tropical zonal winds, major volcanic eruptions, and linear trends that vary significantly with altitude. We calculate a negative mean age trend in the lowest 5 km of the stratosphere that agrees within uncertainties with a trend calculated from a set of chemistry climate model mean ages in this layer. The mean age trends reverse sign in the middle and upper stratosphere and are in agreement with a previous positive trend estimate using the same observational data set, although we have substantially reduced the uncertainty on the trend. Our analysis shows that a long time series of in situ profile measurements of trace gases such as SF6 and CO2 can be a unique and useful indicator of stratospheric circulation variability on a range of time scales and an important contributor to help validate the stratospheric portion of global chemistry climate models. However, with only SF6 and CO2 measurements, the competing effects on mean age between mean circulation and mixing (tropical entrainment) are not uniquely separable.
In recent years, the interest in using solar energy as a major contributor to renewable energy applications has increased, and the focus to optimize the use of electrical energy based on demand and resources from different locations has strengthened. This article includes a procedure for implementing an algorithm to calculate the Moon's zenith angle with uncertainty of +/- 0.001 degrees and azimuth angle with uncertainty of +/- 0.003 degrees. In conjunction with Solar Position Algorithm, the angular distance between the Sun and the Moon is used to develop a method to instantaneously monitor the partial or total solar eclipse occurrence for solar energy applications. This method can be used in many other applications for observers of the Sun and the Moon positions for applications limited to the stated uncertainty. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Shortwave radiometers such as pyranometers, pyrheliometers, photovoltaic cells, and longwave radiometers such as pyrgeometers are calibrated with traceability to consensus References, which are maintained by Absolute Cavity Radiometers (ACRs) and the World InfraRed Standard Group (WISG), respectively. Since the ACR is an open cavity with no window, and was developed to measure the extended broadband spectrum of the terrestrial direct solar beam irradiance, then there would be discrepancy in calibrating the shortwave radiometers because of their limited spectral band. On the other hand, pyrgeometers are calibrated during the nighttime only, because no consensus reference has yet been established for the daytime longwave irradiance. This article describes a method to measure the broadband longwave irradiance in the terrestrial direct solar beam from 3 mu m to 50 mu m. The method might be used in developing calibration methods to address the mismatch between the broadband ACR and shortwave radiometers, and the lack of a daytime reference for pyrgeometer calibration. We used the described method to measure the irradiance from sunrise to sunset; the irradiance varied from approximately 1 W m(-2) to 16 W m(-2) with an estimated uncertainty of 1.46 W m(-2), for a solar zenith angle range from 80 to 16, respectively. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We investigate the cumulative added value of assimilating temperature, moisture, and wind observations in the three-dimensional non-hydrostatic Fifth-Generation Pennsylvania State University/National Center for Atmospheric Research Mesoscale Model MM5 and use these forecasts to analyze the relationship between surface forcing and planetary boundary-layer (PBL) depth. A data assimilation methodology focused on the surface and the PBL, previously tested in a one-dimensional version of MM5, is applied to 29 May, 6 June, and 7 June 2002 during the International H2O Project over the Southern Great Plains. Model-predicted PBL depth is evaluated against PBL depth diagnosed from data across 4,800 km of airborne lidar data (flight tracks 100300 km long). The forecast with data assimilation verifies better against observations and is thus used to investigate the environmental conditions that govern PBL depth. The spatial structure in PBL depth is found to be most affected by spatial variations in surface buoyancy flux and capping inversion strength. The spatial scales of surface flux forcing reflected in the PBL depth are found through Fourier analysis and multiresolution decomposition. Correlations are <0.50 at scales of 64 km or less and increase at larger scales for 29 May and 6 June, but on 7 June low correlations are found at all scales, possibly due to greater within-PBL wind speeds, a stronger capping inversion on this day, and clouds. The results suggest a minimum scale, a function of wind speed, below which heterogeneity in surface buoyancy fluxes is not reflected directly in PBL depth.
The recent deployment of the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Mobile Facility at Graciosa Island, Azores, in the context of the Clouds, Aerosol and Precipitation in the Marine Boundary Layer (CAP-MBL) field campaign added the most extensive (19 months) and comprehensive dataset of marine boundary layer (MBL) clouds to date. Cloud occurrence is high (60%-80%), with a summertime minimum. Liquid precipitation is frequently present (30%-40%), mainly in the form of virga. Boundary layer clouds are themost frequently observed cloud type (40%-50%) with a maximum of occurrence during the summer and fall months under the presence of anticyclonic conditions. Cumulus clouds are the most frequently occurring MBL cloud type (20%) with cumulus under stratocumulus layers (10%-30%) and single-layer stratocumulus (0%-10%) following in frequency of occurrence. A stable transition layer in the subcloud layer is commonly observed (92% of the soundings). Cumulus cloud bases and stratocumulus cloud tops correlate very well with the top of the transition layer and the inversion base, respectively. Drizzling stratocumulus layers are thicker (350-400 m) and have higher liquid water path (75-150 g m-2) than their nondrizzling counterparts (100-250 m and 30-75 g m-2, respectively). The variance of the vertical air motion is maximum near the cloud base and is higher at night. The updraftmass flux is around 0.17 kg m-2 s-1 with 40%-60%explained by coherent updraft structures. Despite a high frequency of stratocumulus clouds in the Azores, theMBL is almost never well mixed and is often cumulus coupled. 2012 American Meteorological Society.
During the late afternoon on 16 November 2008 the Brisbane (Queensland, Australia) suburb of "The Gap" experienced extensive wind damage caused by an intense local thunderstorm. The CP2 research radar nearby detected near-surface radial velocities exceeding 43 ms(-1) above The Gap while hail size reports did not exceed golf ball size, and no tornadoes were reported. The storm environment was characterized by a layer of very moist near-surface air and strong storm-relative low-level flow, whereas the storm-relative winds aloft were weak. While the thermodynamic storm environment contained a range of downdraft-promoting ingredients such as a similar to 4-km-high melting level above a similar to 2-km-deep layer with nearly dry-adiabatic lapse rates mostly collocated with dry ambient air, a similar to 1-km-deep stable layer near the ground would generally lower expectations of destructive surface winds based on the downburst mechanism. Once observed reflectivities exceed 70 dBZ, downdraft cooling due to hail melting and downdraft acceleration based on hail loading are found to likely become nonnegligible forcing mechanisms. The event featured the close proximity of a hydrostatically and dynamically driven mesobigh at the base of the downdraft to a dynamically driven mesolow associated with a low-level circulation. This proximity was instrumental in the anisotropic horizontal acceleration of the near-ground outflow and the ultimate strength of the Gap storm surface winds. Weak storm-relative midlevel winds are speculated to have allowed the downdraft to descend close to the low-level circulation, which set up this strong horizontal perturbation pressure gradient.
The location of the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) site on Manus island was chosen because it is very close to the coast, in a flat, near-sea level area of the island, hopefully minimizing the impact of local island effects on the meteorology of the measurements. In this study, we confirm that the Manus site is indeed less impacted by the island meteorology than slightly inland by comparing over a year of broadband surface irradiance and ceilometer measurements and derived quantities at the standard Manus site and a second location 7 km away as part of the ARM Madden Julian Oscillation Investigation Experiment (AMIE)-Manus campaign. The two sites show statistically similar distributions of irradiance and other derived quantities for all wind directions except easterly winds, when the inland site is downwind from the standard Manus site. Under easterly wind conditions, which occur 17% of the time, there is a higher occurrence of cloudiness at the downwind site likely due to land heating and orographic effects. This increased cloudiness is caused by scattered clouds often with bases around 700 m in altitude. While the central Manus site consistently measures a frequency of occurrence of low clouds (cloud base height less than 1200 m) about 25% of the time regardless of wind direction, the AMIE site has higher frequencies of low clouds (38%) when winds are from the east. This increase in low, locally produced clouds causes an additional -20 W/m(2) shortwave surface cloud radiative effect at the AMIE site than the Manus site.
A 4-yr climatology of midlevel clouds is presented from vertically pointing cloud lidar and radar measurements at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) site at Darwin, Australia. Few studies exist of tropical midlevel clouds using a dataset of this length. Seventy percent of clouds with top heights between 4 and 8 km are less than 2 km thick. These thin layer clouds have a peak in cloud-top temperature around the melting level (0 degrees C) and also a second peak around -12.5 degrees C. The diurnal frequency of thin clouds is highest during the night and reaches a minimum around noon, consistent with variation caused by solar heating. Using a 1.5-yr subset of the observations, the authors found that thin clouds have a high probability of containing supercooled liquid water at low temperatures: similar to 20% of clouds at -30 degrees C, similar to 50% of clouds at -20 degrees C, and similar to 65% of clouds at -10 degrees C contain supercooled liquid water. The authors hypothesize that thin midlevel clouds formed at the melting level are formed differently during active and break monsoon periods and test this over three monsoon seasons. A greater frequency of thin midlevel clouds are likely formed by increased condensation following the latent cooling of melting during active monsoon periods when stratiform precipitation is most frequent. This is supported by the high percentage (65%) of midlevel clouds with preceding stratiform precipitation and the high frequency of stable layers slightly warmer than 0 degrees C. In the break monsoon, a distinct peak in the frequency of stable layers at 0 degrees C matches the peak in thin midlevel cloudiness, consistent with detrainment from convection.
The recently launched NASA Global Precipitation Measurement Mission (GPM) offers the opportunity for a greatly increased understanding of global rainfall and the hydrologic cycle. The GPM algorithm team has made improvements in passive microwave remote sensing of precipitation over land a priority for this mission, and implemented a framework allowing for algorithm advancement for individual land surface types as new techniques are developed. In contrast to the radiometrically cold ocean surface, land emissivity in the microwave is large with highly dynamic variability. An accurate understanding of the instantaneous, dynamic emissivity in terms of the associated surface properties is necessary for a physically based retrieval scheme over land, along with realistic profiles of frozen and liquid hydrometeors. In an effort to better simulate land surface microwave emissivity, a combined modeling technique is developed and tested over the US Southern Great Plains (SGP) area. The National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) Noah land surface model is utilized for surface information, with inputs optimized for SGP. A physical emissivity model, using land surface model data as input, is used to calculate emissivity at the 10 GHz frequency, combining contributions from the underlying soil and vegetation layers, including the dielectric and roughness effects of each medium. An empirical technique is then applied, based upon a robust set of observed channel covariances, extending the emissivity calculations to all channels. The resulting emissivities can then be implemented in calculation of upwelling microwave radiance, and combined with ancillary datasets to compute brightness temperatures (Tbs) at the top of the atmosphere (TOA). For calculation of the hydrometeor contribution, reflectivity profiles from the Tropical Rainfall Measurement Mission Precipitation Radar (TRMM-PR) are utilized along with coincident Tbs from the TRMM radiometer (TMI), and cloud resolving model data from NASA-Goddard's MMF model. Ice profiles are modified to be consistent with the higher frequency microwave Tbs. Resulting modeled TOA Tbs show correlations to observations of 0.9 along with biases 1K or less and small RMS error and show improved agreement over the use of climatological emissivity values. The synthesis of the emissivity and cloud resolving model input with satellite and ancillary datasets leads to creation of a unique Tb database for SGP that includes both dynamic surface and atmospheric information physically consistent with the LSM, emissivity model, and atmospheric information, for use in a Bayesian-type precipitation retrieval scheme utilizing a technique that can easily be applied to GPM as data becomes available. ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric sciences, Remote sensing. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC
An accurate understanding of land surface emissivity in terms of associated surface properties is necessary for improved passive microwave remote sensing of the atmosphere, including water vapor, clouds, and precipitation, over land. In an effort to advance this understanding, emissivities are calculated for a 5 latitude by 5 longitude region in the U.S. Southern Great Plains using a combination of land surface model and physical emissivity model. Results are compared to retrieved values from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer-Earth Observing System passive microwave observations for cloud-free scenes over a six-year period. The resulting emissivities are compared in the context of surface properties including surface temperature, leaf area index (LAI), soil moisture, and precipitation. The comparison confirms that lower frequency channels respond most directly to the surface soil and its dielectric properties. Differences between retrieved and modeled emissivities are generally lower than 2%-3% and appear to be a function of soil moisture and LAI at frequencies less than 37 GHz. Agreement is better for the vertical polarization channels. At 89 GHz, a large difference is present between retrieved and modeled emissivities in both mean and magnitude of variability, particularly in the summer months. Problems are likely present at higher microwave frequencies in both the retrieved and modeled products, including the inability of the emissivity model to represent liquid water in the form of dew or precipitation interception on the vegetation canopy.
An accurate understanding of land surface emissivity in terms of associated surface properties is necessary for improved passive microwave remote sensing of the atmosphere, including water vapor, clouds, and precipitation, over land. In an effort to advance this understanding, emissivities are calculated for a 5 latitude by 5 longitude region in the U.S. Southern Great Plains using a combination of land surface model and physical emissivity model. Results are compared to retrieved values from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer-Earth Observing System passive microwave observations for cloud-free scenes over a six-year period. The resulting emissivities are compared in the context of surface properties including surface temperature, leaf area index (LAI), soil moisture, and precipitation. The comparison confirms that lower frequency channels respond most directly to the surface soil and its dielectric properties. Differences between retrieved and modeled emissivities are generally lower than 2%-3% and appear to be a function of soil moisture and LAI at frequencies less than 37 GHz. Agreement is better for the vertical polarization channels. At 89 GHz, a large difference is present between retrieved and modeled emissivities in both mean and magnitude of variability, particularly in the summer months. Problems are likely present at higher microwave frequencies in both the retrieved and modeled products, including the inability of the emissivity model to represent liquid water in the form of dew or precipitation interception on the vegetation canopy.
An accurate understanding of the instantaneous, dynamic land surface emissivity is necessary for a physically based, multi-channel passive microwave precipitation retrieval scheme over land. In an effort to assess the feasibility of the physical approach for land surfaces, a semi-empirical emissivity model is applied for calculation of the surface component in a test area of the US Southern Great Plains. A physical emissivity model, using land surface model data as input, is used to calculate emissivity at the 10 GHz frequency, combining contributions from the underlying soil and vegetation layers, including the dielectric and roughness effects of each medium. An empirical technique is then applied, based upon a robust set of observed channel covariances, extending the emissivity calculations to all channels. For calculation of the hydrometeor contribution, reflectivity profiles from the Tropical Rainfall Measurement Mission Precipitation Radar (TRMM PR) are utilized along with coincident brightness temperatures (Tbs) from the TRMM Microwave Imager (TMI), and cloud-resolving model profiles. Ice profiles are modified to be consistent with the higher frequency microwave Tbs. Resulting modeled top of the atmosphere Tbs show correlations to observations of 0.9, biases of 1K or less, root-mean-square errors on the order of 5K, and improved agreement over the use of climatological emissivity values. The synthesis of these models and data sets leads to the creation of a simple prototype Tb database that includes both dynamic surface and atmospheric information physically consistent with the land surface model, emissivity model, and atmospheric information.
The present assessment of the West African monsoon in the models of the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP) phase 5 (CMIP5) indicates little evolution since the third phase of CMIP (CMIP3) in terms of both biases in present-day climate and climate projections.The outlook for precipitation in twenty-first-century coupled simulations exhibits opposite responses between the westernmost and eastern Sahel. The spread in the trend amplitude, however, remains large in both regions. Besides, although all models predict a spring and summer warming of the Sahel that is 10%-50% larger than the global warming, their temperature response ranges from 0 to 7 K.CMIP5 coupled models underestimate the monsoon decadal variability, but SST-imposed simulations succeed in capturing the recent partial recovery of monsoon rainfall. Coupled models still display major SST biases in the equatorial Atlantic, inducing a systematic southward shift of the monsoon. Because of these strong biases, the monsoon is further evaluated in SST-imposed simulations along the 10 degrees W-10 degrees E African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) transect, across a range of time scales ranging from seasonal to intraseasonal and diurnal fluctuations.The comprehensive set of observational data now available allows an in-depth evaluation of the monsoon across those scales, especially through the use of high-frequency outputs provided by some CMIP5 models at selected sites along the AMMA transect. Most models capture many features of the African monsoon with varying degrees of accuracy. In particular, the simulation of the top-of-atmosphere and surface energy balances, in relation with the cloud cover, and the intermittence and diurnal cycle of precipitation demand further work to achieve a reasonable realism.
Results are presented that assess the accuracy of the AIRS PWV climatology using measurements from the SuomiNet network of ground-based GPS observations in the U.S. Southern Great Plains. The diurnal sampling error of the AIRS product is evaluated using 30 minute continuous sampling from the GPS network. The GPS network observations are used as a stable reference to assess trends in the AIRS L3 gridded PWV product for the nine year period 2003-2011. An anomalous trend in the AIRS L3 product is detected after 2007 which requires further investigation.
The quantification of uncertainty in satellite-derived global surface albedo products is a critical aspect in producing complete, physically consistent, and decadal land property data records for studying ecosystem change. A challenge in validating albedo measurements acquired from space is the ability to overcome the spatial scaling errors that can produce disagreements between satellite and field-measured values. Here, we present the results from an accuracy assessment of MODIS and Landsat-TM albedo retrievals, based on collocated comparisons with tower and airborne Cloud Absorption Radiometer (CAR) measurements collected during the 2007 Cloud and Land Surface Interaction Campaign (CLASIC). The initial focus was on evaluating inter-sensor consistency through comparisons of intrinsic bidirectional reflectance estimates. Local and regional assessments were then performed to obtain estimates of the resulting scaling uncertainties, and to establish the accuracy of albedo reconstructions during extended periods of precipitation. In general, the satellite-derived estimates met the accuracy requirements established for the high-qualityMODIS operational albedos at 500 m (the greater of 0.02 units or +/- 10% of surface measured values). However, results reveal a high degree of variability in the root-mean-square error (RMSE) and bias of MODIS visible (0.3-0.7 mu m) and Landsat-TM shortwave (0.3-5.0 mu m) albedos; where, in some cases, retrieval uncertainties were found to be in excess of 15%. Results suggest that an overall improvement in MODIS shortwave albedo retrieval accuracy of 7.8%, based on comparisons between MODIS and CAR albedos, resulted from the removal of sub-grid scale mismatch errors when directly scaling-up the tower measurements to the MODIS satellite footprint.
The number of activated cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) into cloud drops at the base of convective clouds (Na) is retrieved based on the high-resolution (375m) satellite retrievals of vertical profiles of convective cloud drop effective radius (re). The maximum cloud base supersaturation (S) is calculated when Na is combined with radar-measured updraft and yields CCN(S), which was validated well against ground-based CCN measurements during the conditions of well-mixed boundary layer over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric System Research Southern Great Plains site. Satellite retrieving Na is a new capability, which is one essential component of simultaneous measurements of cloud microstructure and CCN from space by using clouds as natural CCN chambers. This has to be complemented by a methodology for satellite estimates of cloud base updraft, which is yet to be developed and demonstrated. In the mean time, the retrieved Na can be used for the assimilation of the combined CCN and updraft effects on clouds in models. Key Points Satellite-retrieved convective cloud base drop concentration was validated Cloud base CCN were retrieved when adding cloud-radar-measured updraft Satellite with radar-retrieved CCN at cloud base validated at the DOE/SGP site 2014. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
The number of activated cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) into cloud drops at the base of convective clouds (N-a) is retrieved based on the high-resolution (375 m) satellite retrievals of vertical profiles of convective cloud drop effective radius (r(e)). The maximum cloud base supersaturation (S) is calculated when N-a is combined with radar-measured updraft and yields CCN(S), which was validated well against ground-based CCN measurements during the conditions of well-mixed boundary layer over the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric System Research Southern Great Plains site. Satellite retrieving N-a is a new capability, which is one essential component of simultaneous measurements of cloud microstructure and CCN from space by using clouds as natural CCN chambers. This has to be complemented by a methodology for satellite estimates of cloud base updraft, which is yet to be developed and demonstrated. In the mean time, the retrieved N-a can be used for the assimilation of the combined CCN and updraft effects on clouds in models.
During the Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation/Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) Investigation Experiment field experiment in the Indian Ocean, the National Center for Atmospheric Research dual-polarimetric S-and Ka-band radar (S-PolKa) radar observed three active Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) events. These events were separated by suppressed periods characterized by shallower, more isolated convection and relatively little rainfall. The sensitivity of S-PolKa allowed investigation of the initiation and organization of both nonprecipitating and precipitating clouds. Early in the suppressed periods, shallow nonprecipitating clouds occurred in shear-parallel lines along apparent boundary layer rolls during early morning. Once some of the clouds began to precipitate, small cold pools formed below the showers. By afternoon, the lines all but disappeared with nonprecipitating clouds instead forming along the edges of cold pools. All such convection was limited in depth early in suppressed periods. As the suppressed environment gained moisture, the nonprecipitating clouds were able to grow to larger size, with the deepest precipitating clouds occurring in clusters at intersections of cold pool boundaries by afternoon. Upscale growth into mesoscale convective systems was observed as the suppressed periods transitioned into active MJO phases, contributing to overnight precipitation during the later part of the suppressed period. This study demonstrates the need for models to accurately represent the organization and evolution of nonprecipitating clouds in association with boundary layer dynamics under suppressed conditions of the MJO, prior to the occurrence of precipitating clouds and their cold pools.
The ability of the Rapid Radiative Transfer Model for GCMs (RRTMG) and Goddard shortwave (SW) radiative schemes to reproduce global (GHI), direct (DNI), and diffuse (DIF) fluxes at the surface in clear-sky conditions is examined within the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) modeling framework. The models were forced using measurements of precipitable water and aerosol optical properties from five AERONET sites and were evaluated against high-quality observations of GHI, DNI, and DIF at four nearby or coincident sites of the SURFRAD network and one at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Central Facility in the contiguous US. In addition, the performance has been intercompared against the Dudhia broadband SW parameterization together with a regressive model to calculate DNI and DIF and the top-class SMARTS2 SW spectral model. The role of aerosols has been investigated by running the models with and without aerosols. All of them have shown outstanding skill at predicting GHI within the range of the expected observational error, regardless of whether aerosol information is provided as input. When aerosol information is not provided, DNI and DIF are affected by strong biases. In contrast, providing observed aerosols as input solves the bias issue for DNI and nearly does for DIF using the RRTMG scheme. The RRTMG has also proven to have high potential skill for long-term assessment of clear-sky GHI, DNI, and DIF irradiance, as long as reliable aerosol inputs are provided. Considering its simplicity, the Dudhia scheme has also shown a remarkable ability for solar resource assessment in clear-sky conditions.
The Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site data are analyzed to provide insight into atmosphere-land surface interactions generating summertime precipitation variability. Pentad-averaged (5 days) data are analyzed; the average is long enough to suppress synoptic variability but sufficiently short to resolve atmosphere-land surface interactions. Intercomparison with the precipitation-assimilating North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR) helps with in-depth investigation of the processes. The analysis seeks to ascertain the process sequence, especially the role of evapotranspiration and soil-moisture-radiation feedbacks in the generation of regional precipitation variability at this temporal scale. Transported moisture dominates over evapotranspiration in precipitation variability over the region, from both magnitude of the contribution to regional water balance and its apparent temporal lead at pentad resolution. Antecedent and contemporaneous evapotranspiration are found to be negatively correlated with precipitation, albeit statistically insignificant; only lagging correlations are positive, peaking at 2-pentad lag following precipitation, substantiating the authors' characterization of the water balance over SGP, and extending the authors' previous findings on the dominance of moisture flux convergence in generating precipitation variability at monthly scales. Precipitation episodes are linked with net negative surface radiation anomalies (i.e., with an energy-deprived land surface state that cannot fuel evapotranspiration), ruling out radiatively driven positive feedback on precipitation. Although the net longwave signal is positive because of a colder land surface (less upward terrestrial radiation), it is more than offset by the cloudiness-related reduction in downward shortwave radiation. Thus, ARM (NARR) data do not support the soil-moisture-precipitation feedback hypothesis over the SGP at pentad time scales; however, it may work at subpentad resolution and over other regions.
Ground-based microwave radiometers operating at frequencies near the 22.235 GHz (K-band) water vapor absorption line have been used extensively for remote sensing of water vapor in the troposphere, both the integrated amount and its profile. This paper explores the potential to use ground-based, zenith-pointing K-band radiometer measurements along with optimized background data sets consisting of radiosonde profiles to detect dynamic changes and gradients in water vapor profiles. To explore this capability, the HUMidity EXperiment 2011 (HUMEX11) was conducted at the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) Site near Lamont, OK, USA. This enables the choice of appropriate retrieval parameters to monitor temporal changes in atmospheric water vapor profiles. The results of this study illustrate that in a retrieval algorithm both the choice of the size of the background data set measured near the radiometer measurement time and the choice of atmospheric layer thickness affect the ability to remotely sense dynamic changes in water vapor. In general, it is found that background data sets of larger size provide better accuracy in a statistical sense but inhibit the ability to detect gradients.
The Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (DYNAMO) field campaign was conducted to improve understanding and modeling of the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO). Observations during DYNAMO focused on atmospheric parameters important for understanding MJO initiation, including vertical moisture profiles, cloud structure, precipitation processes and the planetary boundary layer. These observations were performed using a variety of in-situ and remote sensing instruments, including the S-PolKa radar deployed by the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) and the collocated University of Miami (UM) microwave radiometer operating at 23.8 and 30.0 GHz. These instruments sampled approximately the same volumes of the atmosphere. A second microwave radiometer was deployed by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program approximately 8.5 km from the UM radiometer. These observations provided an opportunity to retrieve slant water path (SWP) and slant liquid water (SLW) from ground-based microwave radiometer measurements over a range of azimuth and elevation angles during both clear sky and cloudy conditions. The retrieved SWP and SLW will be compared to those from S-PolKa radar measurements. The goal of this study is to develop an algorithm to retrieve water vapor and liquid water from ground-based radiometer measurements.
This paper describes recent work in the Raman lidar liquid water cloud measurement technique. The range-resolved spectral measurements at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Goddard Space Flight Center indicate that the Raman backscattering spectra measured in and below low clouds agree well with theoretical spectra for vapor and liquid water. The calibration coefficients of the liquid water measurement for the Raman lidar at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Southern Great Plains site of the U.S. Department of Energy were determined by comparison with the liquid water path (LWP) obtained with Atmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer (AERI) and the liquid water content (LWC) obtained with the millimeter wavelength cloud radar and water vapor radiometer (MMCR-WVR) together. These comparisons were used to estimate the Raman liquid water cross-sectional value. The results indicate a bias consistent with an effective liquid water Raman cross-sectional value that is 28%-46% lower than published, which may be explained by the fact that the difference in the detectors' sensitivity has not been accounted for. The LWP of a thin altostratus cloud showed good qualitative agreement between lidar retrievals and AERI. However, the overall ensemble of comparisons of LWP showed considerable scatter, possibly because of the different fields of view of the instruments, the 350-m distance between the instruments, and the horizontal inhomogeneity of the clouds. The LWC profiles for a thick stratus cloud showed agreement between lidar retrievals and MMCR-WVR between the cloud base and 150 m above that where the optical depth was less than 3. Areas requiring further research in this technique are discussed.
We evaluate differences in clear-sky upwelling shortwave radiation reaching the top of the atmosphere in response to increasing the albedo of roof surfaces in an area of India with moderately high aerosol loading. Treated (painted white) and untreated (unpainted) roofs on two buildings in northeast India were analyzed on five cloudless days using radiometric imagery from the IKONOS satellite. Comparison of a radiative transfer model (RRTMG) and radiometric satellite observations shows good agreement (R-2 = 0.927). Results show a mean increase of similar to 50 W m(-2) outgoing at the top of the atmosphere for each 0.1 increase of the albedo at the time of the observations and a strong dependence on atmospheric transmissivity.
The coupling of the land with the planetary boundary layer (PBL) on diurnal time scales is critical to regulating the strength of the connection between soil moisture and precipitation. To improve understanding of land-atmosphere (L-A) interactions, recent studies have focused on the development of diagnostics to quantify the strength and accuracy of the land-PBL coupling at the process level. In this paper, the authors apply a suite of local land-atmosphere coupling (LoCo) metrics to modern reanalysis (RA) products and observations during a 17-yr period over the U.S. southern Great Plains. Specifically, a range of diagnostics exploring the links between soil moisture, evaporation, PBL height, temperature, humidity, and precipitation is applied to the summertime monthlymean diurnal cycles of the NorthAmerican Regional Reanalysis (NARR),Modern-Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications (MERRA), and Climate Forecast System Reanalysis (CFSR). Results showthatCFSRis the driest andMERRAthewettest of the threeRAs in terms of overall surface-PBLcoupling. When compared against observations, CFSR has a significant dry bias that impacts all components of the land-PBL system. CFSR and NARR are more similar in terms of PBL dynamics and response to dry and wet extremes, while MERRA is more constrained in terms of evaporation and PBL variability. Each RA has a unique land-PBL coupling that has implications for downstream impacts on the diurnal cycle of PBL evolution, clouds, convection, and precipitation as well as representation of extremes and drought. As a result, caution should be used when treating RAs as truth in terms of their water and energy cycle processes. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
A new method for continuous observation of aerosol-cloud interactions with ground-based remote sensing instruments is presented. The main goal of this method is to enable the monitoring of the change of the cloud droplet size due to the change in the aerosol concentration. We use high-resolution measurements from a lidar, a radar and a radiometer, which allow us to collect and compare data continuously. This method is based on a standardised data format from Cloudnet and can be implemented at any observatory where the Cloudnet data set is available. Two example case studies were chosen from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program deployment on Graciosa Island, Azores, Portugal, in 2009 to present the method. We use the cloud droplet effective radius (r(e)) to represent cloud microphysical properties and an integrated value of the attenuated backscatter coefficient (ATB) below the cloud to represent the aerosol concentration. All data from each case study are divided into bins of the liquid water path (LWP), each 10 gm(-2) wide. For every LWP bin we present the correlation coefficient between lnr(e) and lnATB, as well as ACI(r) (defined as ACI(r) = -dln r(e)/dlnATB, change in cloud droplet effective radius with aerosol concentration). Obtained values of ACI(r) are in the range 0.01-0.1. We show that ground-based remote sensing instruments used in synergy can efficiently and continuously monitor aerosol-cloud interactions.
A Classical-Nucleation-Theory-based parameterization for heterogenous ice nucleation, including explicit dependencies of the nucleation rates on the number concentration, size, and composition of the ambient aerosol population, is implemented in a cloud-scale, large-eddy simulation model and evaluated against Arctic mixed-phase cloud events observed during Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC). An important feature of the parameterization is that the ice nucleation efficiency of each considered aerosol type is described using a contact angle distribution which evolves with time so that the model accounts for the inhibition of ice nucleation as the most efficient ice-forming particles are nucleated and scavenged. The model gives a reasonable representation of first-order (ice water paths) and second-order (ice crystal size distributions) ice microphysical properties. The production of new ice crystals in the upper part of the cloud, essential to guarantee sustained mixed-phase conditions, is found to be controlled mostly by the competition between radiative cooling (resulting in more aerosol particles becoming efficient ice nuclei as the temperature decreases), cloud-top entrainment (entraining fresh particles into the cloud), and nucleation scavenging of the ice+forming aerosol particles. The relative contribution of each process is mostly determined by the cloud-top temperature and the entrainment rates. Accounting for the evolution of the contact angle probability density function with time seems to be essential to capture the persistence of in-cloud ice production without having to, for example, increase the free tropospheric aerosol concentration. Although limited to only three cases and despite important limitations of the parameterization (e.g., the present version only considers dust and black carbon as potential ice nuclei), the results suggest that modeling the time evolution of the ice nuclei population ability to form ice is required to accurately model Arctic mixed-phase cloud processes.
The depth of the planetary boundary layer (PBL) and its temporal evolution have important effects on weather, air quality and climate. While there are methods to detect the PBL depth from atmospheric profiles, few can be applied to different types of measurements and cope with changing atmospheric conditions. Many require supporting information from other instruments. In this study, two common methods for PBL depth detection (wavelet covariance and iterative curve-fitting) are combined, modified and applied to long-term time series of radiosonde profiles, micropulse lidar (MPL) measured backscatter and atmospheric emitted radiance interferometer (AERI) data collected at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. Intercomparison among the three PBL retrieval products shows the robustness of the algorithm. The comparisons were made for different times of day, four seasons, and variable sky conditions. While considerable uncertainties exist in PBL detection using all three types of measurements, the agreement among the PBL products is promising under certain conditions, and the different measurements have complementary advantages. The best agreement in the seasonal cycle occurs in winter, and the best agreement in the diurnal cycle when the boundary-layer regime is mature and changes slowly. PBL depths from instruments with higher temporal resolution (MPL and AERI) are of comparable accuracy to radiosonde-derived PBL depths; AERI excels for shallow PBLs, MPL for cloudy conditions. The new continuous PBL data set can be used to improve model parameterizations of PBL and our understanding of atmospheric transport of pollutants which affect clouds, air quality and human health. 2013 Elsevier Ltd.
The depth of the planetary boundary layer (PBL) and its temporal evolution have important effects on weather, air quality and climate. While there are methods to detect the PBL depth from atmospheric profiles, few can be applied to different types of measurements and cope with changing atmospheric conditions. Many require supporting information from other instruments. In this study, two common methods for PBL depth detection (wavelet covariance and iterative curve-fitting) are combined, modified and applied to long-term time series of radiosonde profiles, micropulse lidar (MPL) measured backscatter and atmospheric emitted radiance interferometer (AERI) data collected at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. Intercomparison among the three PBL retrieval products shows the robustness of the algorithm. The comparisons were made for different times of day, four seasons, and variable sky conditions. While considerable uncertainties exist in PBL detection using all three types of measurements, the agreement among the PBL products is promising under certain conditions, and the different measurements have complementary advantages. The best agreement in the seasonal cycle occurs in winter, and the best agreement in the diurnal cycle when the boundary-layer regime is mature and changes slowly. PBL depths from instruments with higher temporal resolution (MPL and AERI) are of comparable accuracy to radiosonde-derived PBL depths; AERI excels for shallow PBLs, MPL for cloudy conditions. The new continuous PBL data set can be used to improve model parameterizations of PBL and our understanding of atmospheric transport of pollutants which affect clouds, air quality and human health. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The planetary boundary layer (PBL) limits the vertical mixing of aerosol emitted to the lower troposphere. The PBL depth and its change over time affect weather, surface air quality and radiative forcing. While model simulations have suggested that the column optical properties of aerosol are associated with changes in the PBL depth in turn, there are few long-term measurements of PBL depth with which to validate the theory. Of the existing methods to detect the PBL depth from atmospheric profiles, many require supporting information from multiple instruments or cannot adapt to changing atmospheric conditions. This study combines two common methods for PBL depth detection (wavelet covariance and iterative curve-fitting) in order to produce more reliable PBL depths for micropulse lidar backscatter (MPL). The combined algorithm is also flexible enough to use with radiosonde and atmospheric emitted radiance interferometer (AERI) data. PBL depth retrievals from these three instruments collected at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site are compared to one another to show the robustness of the algorithm. The comparisons were made for different times of day, four seasons, and variable sky conditions. While considerable uncertainties exist in PBL detection using all three types of measurements, the agreement among the PBL products is promising, and the different measurements have complementary advantages. The best agreement in the seasonal cycle occurs in winter, and the best agreement in the diurnal cycle when the boundary-layer regime is mature and changes slowly. PBL depths from instruments with higher temporal resolution (MPL and AERI) are of comparable accuracy to radiosonde-derived PBL depths. The new PBL depth measurements for SGP are compared to MPL-derived PBL depths from a multiyear lidar deployment at the Hefei Radiation Observatory (HeRO), and the column aerosol optical depth (AOD) for each site is considered. A one-month period at SGP is also modeled to relate AOD to PBL depth. These comparisons show a weak inverse relationship between AOD and daytime PBL depth. This is consistent with predictions that aerosol suppresses surface convection and causes shallower PBLs. ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric chemistry, Atmospheric sciences. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
Atmospheric models rely on high-accuracy, high-resolution initial radiometric and surface conditions for better short-term meteorological forecasts, as well as improved evaluation of global climate models. Remote sensing of the Earth's energy budget, particularly with instruments flown on geostationary satellites, allows for near-real-time evaluation of cloud and surface radiation properties. The persistence and coverage of geostationary remote sensing instruments grant the frequent retrieval of near-instantaneous quasi-global skin temperature. Among other cloud and clear-sky retrieval parameters, NASA Langley provides a non-polar, high-resolution land and ocean skin temperature dataset for atmospheric modelers by applying an inverted correlated k-distribution method to clear-pixel values of top-of-atmosphere infrared temperature. The present paper shows that this method yields clear-sky skin temperature values that are, for the most part, within 2 K of measurements from ground-site instruments, like the Southern Great Plains Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Infrared Thermometer and the National Climatic Data Center Apogee Precision Infrared Thermocouple Sensor. The level of accuracy relative to the ARM site is comparable to that of the Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) with the benefit of an increased number of daily measurements without added bias or increased error. Additionally, matched comparisons of the high-resolution skin temperature product with MODIS land surface temperature reveal a level of accuracy well within 1 K for both day and night. This confidence will help in characterizing the diurnal and seasonal biases and root-mean-square differences between the retrievals and modeled values from the NASA Goddard Earth Observing System Version 5 (GEOS-5) in preparation for assimilation of the retrievals into GEOS-5. Modelers should find the immediate availability and broad coverage of these skin temperature observations valuable, which can lead to improved forecasting and more advanced global climate models. 2013 by the authors.
Measurements of the atmospheric HDO/H2O ratio help us to better understand the hydrological cycle and improve models to correctly simulate tropospheric humidity and therefore climate change. We present an updated version of the column-averaged HDO/H2O ratio data set from the SCanning Imaging Absorption spectroMeter for Atmospheric CHartographY (SCIAMACHY). The data set is extended with 2 additional years, now covering 2003-2007, and is validated against co-located ground-based total column (delta D) over bar measurements from Fourier transform spectrometers (FTS) of the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON) and the Network for the Detection of Atmospheric Composition Change (NDACC, produced within the framework of the MUSICA project). Even though the time overlap among the available data is not yet ideal, we determined a mean negative bias in SCIAMACHY (delta D) over bar of -35 +/- 30% compared to TCCON and -69 +/- 15% compared to MUSICA (the uncertainty indicating the station-to-station standard deviation). The bias shows a latitudinal dependency, being largest (similar to-60 to -80 parts per thousand) at the highest latitudes and smallest (similar to-20 to -30%) at the lowest latitudes. We have tested the impact of an offset correction to the SCIAMACHY HDO and H2O columns. This correction leads to a humidity-and latitude-dependent shift in (delta D) over bar and an improvement of the bias by 27 parts per thousand, although it does not lead to an improved correlation with the FTS measurements nor to a strong reduction of the latitudinal dependency of the bias. The correction might be an improvement for dry, high-altitude areas, such as the Tibetan Plateau and the Andes region. For these areas, however, validation is currently impossible due to a lack of ground stations. The mean standard deviation of single-sounding SCIAMACHY-FTS differences is similar to 115 parts per thousand, which is reduced by a factor similar to 2 when we consider monthly means. When we relax the strict matching of individual measurements and focus on the mean seasonalities using all available FTS data, we find that the correlation coefficients between SCIAMACHY and the FTS networks improve from 0.2 to 0.7-0.8. Certain ground stations show a clear asymmetry in (delta D) over bar during the transition from the dry to the wet season and back, which is also detected by SCIAMACHY. This asymmetry points to a transition in the source region temperature or location of the water vapour and shows the added information that HDO/H2O measurements provide when used in combination with variations in humidity.
The relative abundance of the heavy water isotopologue HDO provides a deeper insight into the atmospheric hydrological cycle. The SCanning Imaging Absorption spectroMeter for Atmospheric CartograpHY (SCIAMACHY) allows for global retrievals of the ratio HDO/H2O in the 2.3 micron wavelength range. However, the spectroscopy of water lines in this region remains a large source of uncertainty for these retrievals. We therefore evaluate and improve the water spectroscopy in the range 4174-4300 cm(-1) and test if this reduces systematic uncertainties in the SCIAMACHY retrievals of HDO/H2O. We use a laboratory spectrum of water vapour to fit line intensity, air broadening and wavelength shift parameters. The improved spectroscopy is tested on a series of ground-based high resolution FTS spectra as well as on SCIAMACHY retrievals of H2O and the ratio HDO/H2O. We find that the improved spectroscopy leads to lower residuals in the FTS spectra compared to HITRAN 2008 and Jenouvrier et al. (2007) spectroscopy, and the retrievals become more robust against changes in the retrieval window. For both the FTS and SCIAMACHY measurements, the retrieved total H2O columns decrease by 2-4% and we find a negative shift of the HDO/H2O ratio, which for SCIAMACHY is partly compensated by changes in the retrieval setup and calibration software. The updated SCIAMACHY HDO/H2O product shows somewhat steeper latitudinal and temporal gradients and a steeper Rayleigh distillation curve, strengthening previous conclusions that current isotope-enabled general circulation models underestimate the variability in the near-surface HDO/H2O ratio.
This study explores simulations using the numerical Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model, with respect to the representation of the nocturnal low-level jet (LLJ) over the Sahel. Three sets of experiments are designed to investigate the sensitivity with respect to (i) the boundary-layer and surface-layer schemes including local and non-local closures, (ii) the horizontal grid spacing and the number of vertical levels within the lowest kilometre and (iii) the role of initial and boundary data. In total, 27 simulations are performed on one host domain and two nested domains for a representative LLJ case study on 9 November 2006. The ability of the individual simulations to represent the life cycle of the nocturnal LLJ is validated against observations carried out in the framework of the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) special observation periods: surface wind observations from Agoufou, Bamba and Banizoumbou, atmospheric wind profiles derived from Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Mobile Facility, wind radar measurements at Niamey and profiles from radiosondes launched at Niamey. All runs reproduce the general characteristics of the observed LLJs satisfactorily. In contrast to earlier studies, results are more sensitive to the choice of initial and boundary data (here GFS and ECMWF) than to the boundary-layer and surface schemes used or to model grid resolution. The sensitivity to the model grid resolution is surprisingly minor. Considerable differences between the individual stations suggest that local surface conditions such as roughness length, albedo or soil moisture may play an important role in the observed mismatch between model simulations and observations. 2014 Royal Meteorological Society.
The Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program is a climate research user facility operating stationary ground sites in three important climatic regimes that provide long-term measurements of climate-relevant properties. ARM also operates mobile ground- and ship-based facilities to conduct shorter field campaigns to investigate understudied climate regimes around the globe. Airborne observations by ARM's Aerial Facility (AAF) enhance the surface-based ARM measurements by providing vertical and horizontal context for surface based measurements, validation of remote sensing measurements made from space or the surface, and information which is not accessible by surface- or space-based remote sensing methods. The separately funded ARM Unmanned Aerospace Vehicle (UAV) program has carried out 12 missions between 1993 and 2006 relying on UAVs and piloted aircraft.
A new objective method to determine the height of the planetary boundary layer (PBL) is presented here. PBL heights are computed using the statistical variance and kurtosis of dewpoint and virtual potential temperature differences measured from radio soundings at the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program at the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. These heights are compared with those derived from lidar, also on the site, and with gridded model data from the North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR). A climatology of mean heights in the early (1800 UTC) and late (0000 UTC) afternoon from 2002 to 2010 is presented to show the effectiveness of the method. Future work using the new method include producing an observational climatology of PBL heights and understanding the aerosol loading within the PBL as well as a better understanding of the coupling between the surface and free atmosphere.
Three months of profiler observations from Darwin, Australia are separated into seven cloud types (shallow, mid-level, and deep convective; weak and robust stratiform rain; and transitional and ice-only anvil) to provide vertical velocity statistics on the full spectrum of tropical convective clouds over the course of a monsoon season. Consistent with past studies, convective updraughts increase in height and magnitude as the convective cloud height increases. Shallow/mid-level/deep convection has a mean maximum value of 0.3 m s(-1) at 3 km/0.6 m s(-1) at 5 km/2.5 m s(-1) at 8 km. Deep convective extremes approach 18 m s(-1) above 8 km while downdraughts in all convective cloud types are maximum below 4 km. Stratiform vertical velocities are weaker and less varied than in active convection, with maximum mean values <0.25 m s(-1). However, stratiform rain regions associated with larger near-surface reflectivities (and thus rain rates) have stronger mesoscale up- and downdraughts than weaker stratiform rain regions. Anvil cloud with little or no rain near the surface also exhibits mesoscale up- and downdraughts, but the vertical velocity profile is shifted up in height by at least 2 km. In addition, anvil updraughts were only 20-50% of the magnitudes in the stratiform rain region. Overall, the vertical motion statistics were similar across the pre-, active and suppressed monsoon periods. The vertical velocity distributions for each cloud type were also generally consistent with the reflectivity distributions (i.e. the strongest updraughts were often linked to the largest reflectivities), allowing for some linkages between the dynamical and microphysical cloud properties. For example, strong updraughts above the 0 degrees C level in deep convection are associated with strongly sloping reflectivity profiles supporting the importance of cold rain growth processes, and stronger vertical motions are associated with stratiform rain that has a robust bright band.
Spaceborne radar and lidar observations from the CloudSat and CALIPSO satellites are used to compare seasonal variations in the microphysical and radiative properties of clouds over Ross Island, Antarctica, with two contrasting Arctic atmospheric observatories located in Barrow, Alaska, and Summit, Greenland. At Ross Island, downstream from recurrent intrusions of marine air over the West Antarctic Ice Sheet and eastern Ross Ice Shelf, clouds exhibit a tendency toward the greatest geometrical thickness and coldest temperatures in summer, the largest average ice water content, IWC, at low altitude during summer and autumn, the most abundant IWC at cold mixed-phase temperatures (-40C T -20C), and the strongest impact from ice water on the surface energy budget year round, all with likely origins in orographic lifting of marine air over complex ice sheet and mountainous terrain. Clouds over Barrow form and evolve in a contrastingly warm and moist atmosphere and on average contain the largest liquid water content and ice and liquid water effective particle radii, re, year round. In contrast, clouds observed atop the central Greenland Ice Sheet are relatively tenuous, containing the smallest IWC and ice reof all sites. 2016. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
Observations of cloud properties and thermodynamics from two Arctic locations, Barrow, Alaska, and Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic (SHEBA), are examined. A comparison of in-cloud thermodynamic mixing characteristics for low-level, single-layer clouds from nearly a decade of data at Barrow and one full annual cycle over the sea ice atSHEBAis performed. These cloud types occur relatively frequently, evident in 27%-30% of all cloudy cases. To understand the role of liquid water path (LWP), or lack thereof, on static incloud mixing, cloud layers are separated into optically thin and optically thick LWP subclasses. Clouds with larger LWPs tend to have a deeper in-cloud mixed layer relative to optically thinner clouds. However, both cloud LWP subclasses are frequently characterized by an in-cloud stable layer above the mixed layer top. The depth of the stable layer generally correlates with an increased temperature gradient across the layer. This layer often contains a specific humidity inversion, but it is more frequently present when cloud LWP is optically thinner (LWP < 50 gm<sup>-2</sup>). It is suggested that horizontal thermodynamic advection plays a key role modifying the vertical extent of in-cloud mixing and likewise the depth of in-cloud stable layers. Furthermore, longwave atmospheric opacity above the cloud top is generally enhanced during cases with optically thinner clouds. Thermodynamic advection, cloud condensate distribution within the stable layer, and enhanced atmospheric radiation above the cloud are found to introduce a thermodynamic-radiative feedback that potentially modifies the extent of LWP and subsequent in-cloud mixing. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
Cloud and thermodynamic characteristics from three Arctic observation sites are investigated to understand the collocation between low-level clouds and temperature inversions. A regime where cloud top was 100-200 m above the inversion base [cloud inside inversion (CII)] was frequently observed at central Arctic Ocean sites, while observations from Barrow, Alaska, indicate that cloud tops were more frequently constrained to inversion base height [cloud capped by inversion (CO)]. Cloud base and top heights were lower, and temperature inversions were also stronger and deeper, during CII cases. Both cloud regimes were often decoupled from the surface except for CCI over Barrow. In-cloud lapse rates differ and suggest increased cloud-mixing potential for CII cases. Specific humidity inversions were collocated with temperature inversions for more than 60% of the CCI and more than 85 % of the CII regimes. Horizontal advection of heat and moisture is hypothesized as an important process controlling thermodynamic structure and efficiency of cloud-generated motions. The portion of CII clouds above the inversion contains cloud radar signatures consistent with cloud droplets. The authors test the longwave radiative impact of cloud liquid above the inversion through hypothetical liquid water distributions. Optically thin CII clouds alter the effective cloud emission temperature and can lead to an increase in surface flux on the order of 1.5 W m-2 relative to the same cloud but whose top does not extend above the inversion base. The top of atmosphere impact is even larger, increasing outgoing longwave radiation up to 10 W m-2. These results suggest a potentially significant longwave radiative forcing via simple liquid redistributions for a distinctly dominant cloud regime over sea ice.
Total columnar water vapor (CWV), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and ozone (O-3) are derived from a newly developed, hyperspectral airborne Sun-sky spectrometer (4STAR) for the first time during the two intensive phases of the Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP) in summer 2012 and winter 2013 aboard the DOE G-1 aircraft. We compare results with coincident measurements. We find 0.045g/cm(2) (4.2%) negative bias and 0.28g/cm(2) (26.3%) root-mean-square difference (RMSD) in water vapor layer comparison with an in situ hygrometer and an overall RMSD of 1.28g/m(3) (38%) water vapor amount in profile by profile comparisons, with differences distributed evenly around zero. RMSD for O-3 columns average to 3%, with a 1% negative bias for 4STAR compared with the Ozone Measuring Instrument along aircraft flight tracks for 14 flights during both TCAP phases. Ground-based comparisons with Pandora spectrometers at the Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland, showed excellent agreement between the instruments for both O-3 (1% RMSD and 0.1% bias) and NO2 (17.5% RMSD and -8% bias). We apply clustering analysis of the retrieved products as a case study during the TCAP summer campaign to identify variations in atmospheric composition of elevated pollution layers and demonstrate that combined total column measurements of trace gas and aerosols can be used to define different pollution layer sources, by comparing our results with trajectory analysis and in situ airborne miniSPLAT (single-particle mass spectrometer) measurements. Our analysis represents a first step in linking sparse but intense in situ measurements from suborbital campaigns with total column observations from space.
This study examines eight microphysics schemes (Lin, WSM5, Eta, WSM6, Goddard, Thompson, WDM5, WDM6) in the Advanced Research Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF-ARW) for their reproduction of observed strong convection over the US Southern Great Plains (SGP) for three heavy precipitation events of 27-31 May 2001. It also assesses how observational analysis nudging (OBNUD), three-dimensional (3DVAR) and four-dimensional variational (4DVAR) data assimilation (DA) affect simulated cloud properties relative to simulations with no DA (CNTRL). Primary evaluation data were cloud radar reflectivity measurements by the millimetre cloud radar (MMCR) at the Central Facility (CF) of the SGP site of the ARM Climate Research Facility (ACRF). All WRF-ARW microphysics simulations reproduce the intensity and vertical structure of the first two major MMCR-observed storms, although the first simulated storm initiates a few hours earlier than observed. Of three organised convective events, the model best identifies the timing and vertical structure of the second storm more than 50 hours into the simulation. For this well-simulated cloud structure, simulated reflectivities are close to the observed counterparts in the mid-and upper troposphere, and only overestimate observed cloud radar reflectivity in the lower troposphere by less than 10 dBZ. Based on relative measures of skill, no single microphysics scheme excels in all aspects, although the WDM schemes show much-improved frequency bias scores (FBSs) in the lower troposphere for a range of reflectivity thresholds. The WDM6 scheme has improved FBSs and high simulated-observed reflectivity correlations in the lower troposphere, likely due to its large production of liquid water immediately below the melting level. Of all the DA experiments, 3DVAR has the lowest mean errors (MEs) and root mean-squared errors (RMSEs), although both the 3DVAR and 4DVAR simulations reduced noticeably the MEs for seven of eight microphysics schemes relative to CNTRL. Lower-tropospheric theta(e) and convective available potential energy (CAPE) also are closer to the observations for the 4DVAR than CNTRL simulations.
Joint observation using Lidar and millimeter wave cloud radar (MWCR) from which more comprehensive properties of cirrus can be retrieved is the main trend of cirrus observation. Combining the information of cirrus boundary from Lidar and MWCR of ARM project, more accurate boundary of cirrus was obtained. Joint inversion method for retrieving cirrus microphysical properties was presented. Both ice water content and optical depth can be inverted accurately even in cases when the cirrus can't be penetrated by Lidar or can't be sensed by the MWCR through this method. The joint method was applied to a cirrus case, the results showed the accuracy of ice path content increased by 24% when the Lidar can't penetrate the cirrus and 48% when the MWCR can't sense the cirrus. Based on the accurate inversion of ice water content, the optical depth of cirrus was obtained using the relationship between ice water content, size distribution and optical depth. The inversion method of optical depth can overcome the difficulty arise from the attenuation of cirrus to Lidar. , 2015, Editorial Board of Journal of Infrared and Laser Engineering. All right reserved.
Airborne observations from four flights during the 2008 Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) are used to examine some cloud-free optical, physical, and chemical properties of aerosol particles in the springtime Arctic troposphere. The number concentrations of particles larger than 0.12m (Na120), important for light extinction and cloud droplet formation, ranged from 15 to 2260cm-3, with the higher Na120 cases dominated by measurements from two flights of long-range transported biomass burning (BB) aerosols. The two other flights examined here document a relatively clean aerosol and an Arctic Haze aerosol impacted by larger particles largely composed of dust. For observations from the cleaner case and the BB cases, the particle light scattering coefficients at low relative humidity (RH20%) increased nonlinearly with increasing Na120, driven mostly by an increase in mean sizes of particles with increasing Na120 (BB cases). For those three cases, particle light absorption coefficients also increased nonlinearly with increasing Na120 and linearly with increasing submicron particle volume concentration. In addition to black carbon, brown carbon was estimated to have increased light absorption coefficients by 27% (450nm wavelength) and 14% (550nm) in the BB cases. For the case with strong dust influence, the absorption relative to submicron particle volume was small compared with the other cases. There was a slight gradient of Passive Cavity Aerosol Spectrometer Probe (PCASP) mean volume diameter (MVD) towards smaller sizes with increasing height, which suggests more scavenging of the more elevated particles, consistent with a typically longer lifetime of particles higher in the atmosphere. However, in approximately 10% of the cases, the MVD increased (0.4m) with increasing altitude, suggesting transport of larger fine particle mass (possibly coarse particle mass) at high levels over the Arctic. This may be because of transport of larger particles at higher elevations and relatively slow deposition to the surface. 2014 Royal Meteorological Society.
The objective of this work is to investigate the variability in the aerosol particle number concentration in Arctic spring. The Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) was conducted during April 2008 in the vicinities of Fairbanks and Barrow, Alaska. Aircraft-based measurements of total aerosol particle number concentration (Na) in the size range of 0.12-3 m diameter were obtained using a passive cavity aerosol spectrometer probe (PCASP-100X). The analysis considers Na during cloud-free periods in biomass burning (BB) and non-BB aerosol loading scenarios, the latter including background cases and cases with elevated concentration in layers. The BB cases had air masses originating mainly from Russian and Asian forest and crop fires, whereas the non-BB cases originated predominantly from Arctic or oceanic regions. The average Na for all non-BB cases was 127 cm-3, while that for all BB cases was Na = 720 cm-3. These estimates do not, however, capture the details of aerosol particle layers encountered during most flights. Variability in Na was considered for constant altitude (horizontal) flight legs ranging from 50 to 650 km in length, as well as for vertical flight profiles up to 7 km above sea level. When aerosol particle layers were encountered, Na rapidly increased from 20 to 550 cm-3, and reached up to 2200 cm-3 within air masses dominated by BB plumes. The observed variability in Na may have important implications for estimating cloud microphysical properties as well as estimates of particle properties used in global climate model simulations, because averaging over large space- or time-scales may not represent real atmospheric conditions. The analysis demonstrates the difficulty in interpreting average aerosol particle characteristics along longer flight legs, particularly during cases with higher particle loading that varies over shorter distance scales and time periods. Copyright 2012 Royal Meteorological Society and Crown in the right of Canada.
The objective of this work is to investigate the variability in the aerosol particle number concentration in Arctic spring. The Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) was conducted during April 2008 in the vicinities of Fairbanks and Barrow, Alaska. Aircraft-based measurements of total aerosol particle number concentration (N-a) in the size range of 0.12-3 mu m diameter were obtained using a passive cavity aerosol spectrometer probe (PCASP-100X). The analysis considers N-a during cloud-free periods in biomass burning (BB) and non-BB aerosol loading scenarios, the latter including background cases and cases with elevated concentration in layers. The BB cases had air masses originating mainly from Russian and Asian forest and crop fires, whereas the non-BB cases originated predominantly from Arctic or oceanic regions. The average N-a for all non-BB cases was 127 cm(-3), while that for all BB cases was N-a = 720 cm(-3). These estimates do not, however, capture the details of aerosol particle layers encountered during most flights. Variability in N-a was considered for constant altitude (horizontal) flight legs ranging from 50 to 650 km in length, as well as for vertical flight profiles up to 7 km above sea level. When aerosol particle layers were encountered, N-a rapidly increased from 20 to 550 cm(-3), and reached up to 2200 cm(-3) within air masses dominated by BB plumes. The observed variability in N-a may have important implications for estimating cloud microphysical properties as well as estimates of particle properties used in global climate model simulations, because averaging over large space- or time-scales may not represent real atmospheric conditions. The analysis demonstrates the difficulty in interpreting average aerosol particle characteristics along longer flight legs, particularly during cases with higher particle loading that varies over shorter distance scales and time periods. Copyright (C) 2012 Royal Meteorological Society and Crown in the right of Canada.
Canopy phenology plays a prominent role in determining the timing and magnitude of carbon uptake by many ecosystems. The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) Global Land Cover Dynamics product developed from the enhanced vegetation index (EVI) provides broad spatial and temporal coverage of land-surface phenology (LSP), and may serve as a useful proxy for the phenology of canopy photosynthesis. Here, we compare the MODIS growing season start and end dates (SOS and EOS) with the seasonal phenology of canopy photosynthesis estimated using the eddy covariance approach. Using 153 site-years obtained from the Ameriflux database, we calculated the SOS and EOS of gross primary production (GPP) and canopy photosynthesis capacity (CPC) for seven different boreal and temperate vegetation types. CPC is GPP at maximum radiation, estimated by fitting half-hourly GPP and radiation to a rectangular hyperbolic function. We found large mean absolute differences of up to 53 days, depending on vegetation type, between the phenology of canopy development and photosynthesis, indicating that remotely sensed LSP is not a robust surrogate of seasonal changes in GPP, particularly for evergreen needleleaf forests. This limited correspondence of ecosystem carbon uptake with the MODIS LSP product points to the need for improved remotely sensed proxies of GPP phenology.
We describe and evaluate a novel method to blend two observed cloud fraction (CF) datasets through Bayesian posterior estimation. The research reported here is a feasibility study designed to explore the method. In this proof-of-concept study, we illustrate the approach using specific observational datasets from the U. S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Southern Great Plains site in the central United States, but the method is quite general and is readily applicable to other datasets. The total sky image (TSI) camera observations are used to determine the prior distribution. A regression model and the active remote sensing of clouds (ARSCL) radar/lidar observations are used to determine the likelihood function. The posterior estimate is a probability density function (pdf) of the CF whose mean is taken to be the optimal blend of the two observations. The data at hourly, daily, 5-day, monthly, and annual time scales are considered. Some physical and probabilistic properties of the CFs are explored from radar/lidar, camera, and satellite observations and from simulations using the Community Atmosphere Model (CAM5). Our results imply that (a) the Beta distribution is a reasonable model for CF for both short- and long-time means, the 5-day data are skewed right, and the annual data are almost normally distributed, and (b) the Bayesian method developed successfully yields a pdf of CF, rather than a deterministic CF value, and it is feasible to blend the TSI and ARSCL data with a capability for bias correction.
Between June 2006 and September 2009, an instrumented light aircraft measured over 400 vertical profiles of aerosol and trace gas properties over eastern and central Illinois. The primary objectives of this program were to (1) measure the in situ aerosol properties and determine their vertical and temporal variability and (2) relate these aircraft measurements to concurrent surface and satellite measurements. The primary profile location was within 15 km of the NOAA/ESRL surface aerosol monitoring station near Bondville, Illinois. Identical instruments at the surface and on the aircraft ensured that the data from both platforms would be directly comparable and permitted a determination of how representative surface aerosol properties were of the lower column. Aircraft profiles were also conducted occasionally at two other nearby locations to increase the frequency of A-Train satellite underflights for the purpose of comparing in situ and satellite-retrieved aerosol data. Measurements of aerosol properties conducted at low relative humidity over the Bondville site compare well with the analogous surface aerosol data and do not indicate any major sampling issues or that the aerosol is radically different at the surface compared with the lowest flyby altitude of similar to 240m above ground level. Statistical analyses of the in situ vertical profile data indicate that aerosol light scattering and absorption (related to aerosol amount) decreases substantially with increasing altitude. Parameters related to the nature of the aerosol (e. g., single-scattering albedo, Angstrom exponent, etc.), however, are relatively constant throughout the mixed layer, and do not vary as much as the aerosol amount throughout the profile. While individual profiles often showed more variability, the median in situ single-scattering albedo was 0.93-0.95 for all sampled altitudes. Several parameters (e.g., submicrometer scattering fraction, hemispheric backscattering fraction, and scattering Angstrom exponent) suggest that the fraction of smaller particles in the aerosol is larger near the surface than at high altitudes. The observed dependence of scattering on size, wavelength, angular integration range, and relative humidity, together with the spectral dependence of absorption, show that the aerosol at higher altitudes is larger, less hygroscopic, and more strongly absorbing at shorter wavelengths, suggesting an increased contribution from dust or organic aerosols. The aerosol profiles show significant differences among seasons. The largest amounts of aerosol (as determined by median light extinction profile measurements) throughout most of the sampled column were observed during summer, with the lowest amounts in the winter and intermediate values in the spring and fall. The highest three profile levels (3.1, 3.7, 4.6 km), however, showed larger median extinction values in the spring, which could reflect long-range transport of dust or smoke aerosols. The aerosols in the mixed layer were darkest (i.e., lowest single-scattering albedo) in the fall, in agreement with surface measurements at Bondville and other continental sites in the US. In situ profiles of aerosol radiative forcing efficiency showed little seasonal or vertical variability. Underflights of the CALIPSO satellite show reasonable agreement in a majority of retrieved profiles between aircraft-measured extinction at 532 nm (adjusted to ambient relative humidity) and CALIPSO-retrieved extinction, and suggest that routine aircraft profiling programs can be used to better understand and validate satellite retrieval algorithms. CALIPSO tended to overestimate the aerosol extinction at this location in some boundary layer flight segments when scattered or broken clouds were present, which could be related to problems with CALIPSO cloud screening methods. The in situ aircraft-collected aerosol data suggest extinction thresholds for the likelihood of aerosol layers being detected by the CALIOP lidar. In this study, aerosol layers with light extinction (532 nm) values > 50 Mm(-1) were detected by CALIPSO similar to 95% of the time, while aerosol layers with extinction values lower than 10 Mm(-1) had a detection efficiency of < 2 %. For all collocated comparison cases, a 50% probability of detection falls at an in situ extinction level of 20-25 Mm(-1). These statistical data offer guidance as to the likelihood of CALIPSO's ability to retrieve aerosol extinction at various locations around the globe.
Hourly averaged aerosol optical properties (AOPs) measured over the years 2010-2013 at four continental North American NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory (NOAA/ESRL) cooperative aerosol network sites - Southern Great Plains near Lamont, OK (SGP), Bondville, IL (BND), Appalachian State University in Boone, NC (APP), and Egbert, Ontario, Canada (EGB) are analyzed. Aerosol optical properties measured over 1996-2009 at BND and 1997-2009 at SGP are also presented. The aerosol sources and types in the four regions differ enough so as to collectively represent rural, anthropogenically perturbed air conditions over much of eastern continental North America. Temporal AOP variability on monthly, weekly, and diurnal timescales is presented for each site. Differences in annually averaged AOPs and those for individual months at the four sites are used to examine regional AOP variability. Temporal and regional variability are placed in the context of reported aerosol chemistry at the sites, meteorological measurements (wind direction, temperature), and reported regional mixing layer heights. Basic trend analysis is conducted for selected AOPs at the long-term sites (BND and SGP). Systematic relationships among AOPs are also presented. Seasonal variability in PM1 (sub-1 mu m particulate matter) scattering and absorption coefficients at 550 nm (sigma(sp) and sigma(ap), respectively) and most of the other PM1 AOPs is much larger than day of week and diurnal variability at all sites. All sites demonstrate summer sigma(sp) and sigma(ap) peaks. Scattering coefficient decreases by a factor of 2-4 in September-October and coincides with minimum single-scattering albedo (omega(0)) and maximum hemispheric backscatter fraction (b). The covariation of omega(0) and b lead to insignificant annual cycles in top-of-atmosphere direct radiative forcing efficiency (DRFE) at APP and SGP. Much larger annual DRFE cycle amplitudes are observed at EGB (similar to 40 %) and BND (similar to 25 %), with least negative DRFE in September-October at both sites. Secondary winter peaks in sigma(sp) are observed at all sites except APP. Amplitudes of diurnal and weekly cycles in sigma(ap) at the sites are larger for all seasons than those of sigma(sp), with the largest differences occurring in summer. The weekly and diurnal cycle amplitudes of most intensive AOPs (e.g., those derived from ratios of measured sigma(sp) and sigma(ap)) are minimal in most cases, especially those related to parameterizations of aerosol size distribution. Statistically significant trends in sigma(sp) (decreasing), PM1 scattering fraction (decreasing), and b (increasing) are found at BND from 1996 to 2013 and at SGP from 1997 to 2013. A statistically significant decreasing trend in PM10 scattering Angstrom exponent is also observed for SGP but not BND. Most systematic relationships among AOPs are similar for the four sites and are adequately described for individual seasons by annually averaged relationships, although relationships involving absorption Angstrom exponent vary with site and season.
The 4STAR (Spectrometer for Sky-Scanning, Sun-Tracking Atmospheric Research), a hyperspectral airborne Sun photometer, acquired aerosol optical depths (AOD) at 1 Hz during all July 2012 flights of the Two-Column Aerosol Project. Root-mean-square differences from Aerosol Robotic Network ground-based observations were 0.01 at wavelengths between 500-1020 nm, 0.02 at 380 and 1640 nm, and 0.03 at 440 nm in four clear-sky fly-over events, and similar in ground side-by-side comparisons. Changes in the above-aircraft AOD across 3 km deep spirals were typically consistent with integrals of coincident in situ (on Department of Energy Gulfstream 1 with 4STAR) and lidar (on NASA B200) extinction measurements within 0.01, 0.03, 0.01, 0.02, 0.02, and 0.02 at 355, 450, 532, 550, 700, and 1064 nm, respectively, despite atmospheric variations and combined measurement uncertainties. Finer vertical differentials of the 4STAR measurements matched the in situ ambient extinction profile within 14% for one homogeneous column. For the AOD observed between 350 and 1660 nm, excluding strong water vapor and oxygen absorption bands, estimated uncertainties were similar to 0.01 and dominated by (then) unpredictable throughput changes, up to +/-0.8%, of the fiber optic rotary joint. The favorable intercomparisons herald 4STAR's spatially resolved high-frequency hyperspectral products as a reliable tool for climate studies and satellite validation.
Cloud phase and microphysical properties control the radiative effects of clouds in the climate system and are therefore crucial to characterize in a variety of conditions and locations. An Arctic-specific, ground-based, multisensor cloud retrieval system is described here and applied to 2 yr of observations from Barrow, Alaska. Over these 2 yr, clouds occurred 75% of the time, with cloud ice and liquid each occurring nearly 60% of the time. Liquid water occurred at least 25% of the time, even in winter, and existed up to heights of 8 km. The vertically integrated mass of liquid was typically larger than that of ice. While it is generally difficult to evaluate the overall uncertainty of a comprehensive cloud retrieval system of this type, radiative flux closure analyses were performed in which flux calculations using the derived microphysical properties were compared with measurements at the surface and the top of the atmosphere. Radiative closure biases were generally smaller for cloudy scenes relative to clear skies, while the variability of flux closure results was only moderately larger than under clear skies. The best closure at the surface was obtained for liquid-containing clouds. Radiative closure results were compared with those based on a similar, yet simpler, cloud retrieval system. These comparisons demonstrated the importance of accurate cloud-phase and cloud-type classification, and specifically the identification of liquid water, for determining radiative fluxes. Enhanced retrievals of liquid water path for thin clouds were also shown to improve radiative flux calculations. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
A three-dimensional sea ice model is presented with resolved snow thickness variations and melt ponds. The model calculates heating from solar radiative transfer and simulates the formation and movement of brine/melt water through the ice system. Initialization for the model is based on observations of snow topography made during the summer melt seasons of 2009, 2010, and 2012 from a location off the coast of Barrow, AK. Experiments are conducted to examine the importance of snow properties and snow and ice thickness by comparing observed and modeled pond fraction and albedo. One key process simulated by the model is the formation of frozen layers in the ice as relatively warm fresh water grid cells freeze when cooled by adjacent, cold brine-filled grid cells. These layers prevent vertical drainage and lead to flooding of melt water commonly observed at the beginning of the melt season. Flooding persists until enough heat is absorbed to melt through the frozen layer. The resulting long-term melt pond coverage is sensitive to both the spatial variability of snow cover and the minimum snow depth. For thin snow cover, initial melting results in earlier, reduced flooding with a small change in pond fraction after drainage of the melt water. Deeper snow tends to generate a delayed, larger peak pond fraction before drainage.
The NAST-I and SHIS ultra spectral interferometer sounders flew on the NASA ER-2 aircraft during the May 2013 S-NPP Calibration/Validation Campaign. The ER-2 under flew the Metop-A and -B, Aqua, and SNPP satellites, which carry the IASI, AIRS, and CrIS ultra spectral sounding instruments, respectively. Special ground truth radiosonde and surface based upward viewing ultraspectral radiance Planetary boundary Layer (PBL) sounding observations (i.e., from the AERI and the ASSIST interferometer spectrometers) were obtained at the DOE Southern Great Plains (SGP) ARM CART-site and from a mobile ground site located in Yuma, Arizona. A common physical/statistical sounding retrieval algorithm and statistical database have been applied to the aircraft, ground-based interferometer, and satellite ultra spectral radiance data in order to use the higher spatial resolution aircraft data and higher vertical resolution surface-based interferometer PBL soundings, and radiosonde profiles, to validate the satellite sounding products. Differences between the satellite and the surface/airborne ground truth measurements are discussed. In particular, the comparisons between the satellite retrieved profiles and the ground truth observations revealed that improvements in the specification of surface emissivity spectra were needed in order to retrieve accurate atmospheric structure in the Planetary Boundary Layer (PBL). As a result a physical simultaneous surface skin/surface emissivity determination algorithm was implemented which improved the accuracy of atmospheric profiles retrieved throughput the lower trophosphere. Here, special emphasis is given to validating the satellite atmospheric stability and time tendency observations made prior to the development of the devastating Moore, OK tornado on May 20, 2013.
In this study, a series of idealized large-eddy simulations is used to understand the relative impact of cloudtop and subcloud-layer sources of moisture on the microphysical-radiative-dynamical feedbacks in an Arctic mixed-phase stratocumulus (AMPS) cloud system. This study focuses on a case derived from observations of a persistent single-layer AMPS cloud deck on 8 April 2008 during the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign near Barrow, Alaska. Moisture and moist static energy budgets are used to examine the potential impact of ice in mixed-phase clouds, specific humidity inversions coincident with temperature inversions as a source of moisture for the cloud system, and the presence of cloud liquid water above the mixed-layer top. This study demonstrates that AMPS have remarkable insensitivity to changes in moisture source. When the overlying air is dried initially, radiative cooling and turbulent entrainment increase moisture import from the surface layer. When the surface layer is dried initially, the system evolves to a state with reduced mixed-layer water vapor and increased surface-layer moisture, reducing the loss of water through precipitation and entrainment of near-surface air. Only when moisture is reduced both above and below the mixed layer does the AMPS decay without reaching a quasi-equilibrium state. A fundamental finding of this study is that, with or without cloud ice and with or without a specific humidity inversion, the cloud layer eventually extends into the temperature inversion producing a precipitation flux as a source of water into the mixed layer. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
This study evaluates the performances of seven single-column models (SCMs) by comparing simulated cloud fraction with observations at theAtmospheric RadiationMeasurement Program(ARM) SouthernGreat Plains (SGP) site fromJanuary 1999 toDecember 2001.Comparedwith the 3-yrmean observational cloud fraction, the ECMWF SCM underestimates cloud fraction at all levels and the GISS SCM underestimates cloud fraction at levels below 200 hPa. The two GFDL SCMs underestimate lower-to-middle level cloud fraction but overestimate upper-level cloud fraction. The three Community Atmosphere Model (CAM) SCMs overestimate upper-level cloud fraction and produce lower-level cloud fraction similar to the observations but as a result of compensating overproduction of convective cloud fraction and underproduction of stratiform cloud fraction. Besides, the CAM3 and CAM5 SCMs both overestimate midlevel cloud fraction, whereas the CAM4 SCM underestimates. The frequency and partitioning analyses show a large discrepancy among the seven SCMs: Contributions of nonstratiform processes to cloud fraction production are mainly in upper-level cloudy events over the cloud cover range 10%-80%in SCMs with prognostic cloud fraction schemes and in lower-level cloudy events over the cloud cover range 15%-50%in SCMs with diagnostic cloud fraction schemes. Further analysis reveals different relationships between cloud fraction and relative humidity (RH) in the models and observations. The underestimation of lower-level cloud fraction inmost SCMs ismainly due to the larger threshold RH used in models. The overestimation of upper-level cloud fraction in the threeCAMSCMs and twoGFDL SCMs is primarily due to the overestimation of RH and larger mean cloud fraction of cloudy events plus more occurrences of RH around 40%-80%, respectively. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
This study evaluates the performances of seven single-column models (SCMs) by comparing simulated surface precipitation with observations at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Southern Great Plains (SGP) site from January 1999 to December 2001. Results show that although most SCMs can reproduce the observed precipitation reasonably well, there are significant and interesting differences in their details. In the cold season, the model-observation differences in the frequency and mean intensity of rain events tend to compensate each other for most SCMs. In the warm season, most SCMs produce more rain events in daytime than in nighttime, whereas the observations have more rain events in nighttime. The mean intensities of rain events in these SCMs are much stronger in daytime, but weaker in nighttime, than the observations. The higher frequency of rain events during warm-season daytime in most SCMs is related to the fact that most SCMs produce a spurious precipitation peak around the regime of weak vertical motions but rich in moisture content. The models also show distinct biases between nighttime and daytime in simulating significant rain events. In nighttime, all the SCMs have a lower frequency of moderate-to-strong rain events than the observations for both seasons. In daytime, most SCMs have a higher frequency of moderate-to-strong rain events than the observations, especially in the warm season. Further analysis reveals distinct meteorological backgrounds for large underestimation and overestimation events. The former occur in the strong ascending regimes with negative low-level horizontal heat and moisture advection, whereas the latter occur in the weak or moderate ascending regimes with positive low-level horizontal heat and moisture advection. 2013 American Meteorological Society.
The multimodel Global Land-Atmosphere Coupling Experiment (GLACE) identified the semiarid Southern Great Plains (SGP) as a hotspot for land-atmosphere (LA) coupling and, consequently, land-derived temperature and precipitation predictability. The area including and surrounding the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) SGP Climate Research Facility has in particular been well studied in the context of LA coupling. Observation-based studies suggest a coupling signal that is much weaker than modeled, if not elusive. Using North American Regional Reanalysis and North American Land Data Assimilation System data, this study provides a 36-yr (1979-2014) climatology of coupling for ARM-SGP that 1) unifies prior interdisciplinary efforts and 2) isolates the origin of the (weak) coupling signal. Specifically, the climatology of a prominent convective triggering potential-low-level humidity index (CTP-HIlow) coupling classification is linked to corresponding synoptic-mesoscale weather and atmospheric moisture budget analyses. The CTP-HIlow classification defines a dry-advantage regime for which convective triggering is preferentially favored over drier-than-average soils as well as a wet-advantage regime for which convective triggering is preferentially favored over wetter-than-average soils. This study shows that wet-advantage days are a result of horizontal moisture flux convergence over the region, and conversely, dry-advantage days are a result of zonal and vertical moisture flux divergence. In this context, the role of the land is nominal relative to that of atmospheric forcing. Surface flux partitioning, however, can play an important role in modulating diurnal precipitation cycle phase and amplitude and it is shown that soil moisture and sensible heat flux are significantly correlated with both occurrence and intensity of afternoon peak precipitation.
An efficient two-moment microphysics parameterization scheme for convective clouds is developed to improve the representation of convective clouds and its interactions with stratiform clouds and aerosol in global climate models (GCMs). The scheme explicitly treats mass mixing ratio and number concentration of four hydrometeor species (cloud water, cloud ice, rain, and snow) and describes several microphysical processes, including autoconversion, self-collection, collection between hydrometeor species, freezing, cloud ice nucleation, droplet activation, and sedimentation. Thus this physically based scheme is suitable for investigating the interaction between convection and aerosol and the indirect aerosol effect on climate. An evaluation of the scheme in the single-column version of NCAR Community Atmospheric Model version 3.5 (CAM3.5) with the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) data shows that the simulation of cloud microphysical properties in convective core is significantly improved, indicating that the new parameterization describes the microphysical processes in convection reasonably well. The contribution from convective detrainment to large-scale cloud ice and liquid water budgets is enhanced greatly. With more realistic convective cloud microphysical properties and their detrainment, the surface stratiform precipitation, which is seriously underestimated in the model, is increased by a factor of roughly 2.5, and therefore is much closer to the observations. In addition, the simulations of net surface shortwave radiation flux, OLR, specific humidity, and temperature are also improved to some extent. Sensitivity experiments show that the microphysics scheme is moderately sensitive to model vertical resolution, updraft vertical velocity, and numerics, but less so to the lower boundary conditions of hydrometeor budget equations. The experiments with climatological aerosol distribution show that convective precipitation is suppressed with increasing aerosol amount, consistent with some available observations.
Wind field climatology, changes, and extremes at similar to 32-km resolution were analyzed for the Chukchi-Beaufort Seas and Alaska North Slope region using 3-hourly North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR) from 1979 to 2009. The monthly average wind speeds show a clear seasonal cycle with a minimum of 2-4 m s(-1) in May and a maximum up to 9 m s(-1) in October. The 95th percentile winds show a similar seasonality with a maximum up to 15 m s(-1) in October. The 31-yr domain averaged 3-hourly wind speeds display a clear diurnal cycle over land and sea ice areas during the warm seasons. Weaker radiation during winter and larger heat capacity over open water reduce the diurnal signal in the wind field diurnal variations. There. were increasing trends of areal averaged monthly mean and 95th percentile Nyi.nd speeds for July through November. The strongest increase in the areal averaged 95th percentile wind speeds occurred in October from 7 m s(-1) in 1979 to 10.5 m s(-1) in 2009. The frequency of extreme wind events (speed above the 95th percentile winds) shows an increasing tread in all months, with the greatest increase occurring in October, showing 8% more extreme wind events in 2009 comparing to 1979. The prevailing wind direction was northeast with a frequency of 40%-60% for most of the year. The frequency for southwest and northwest winds was small (<20%) except for two anomalous areas along the Brooks Range in Alaska and the Chukotka Mountains in easternmost Russia where the frequency has increased to 35%-50% during the cold season months.
Atmospheric aerosols affect the Earth's radiation budget both directly, through interactions with solar and terrestrial radiation, and indirectly, as cloud condensation and ice nuclei. Against the typically clean polar atmospheres, small increases in aerosol concentrations can perturb radiative fluxes significantly. During spring 2002, dust storms from the deserts of China and Mongolia were tracked over the Arctic, establishing that such remote regions are not immune to the dispersion of Asian dust. Increased aerosol optical depths and lidar measurements at Barrow, AK, in conjunction with trajectory analyses and dust transport provide corroborating evidence for transport of dust to the Arctic. The primary impact of the dust layer can be determined by examining its radiative properties relative to the underlying snow and intervening pristine background environment. Through a sequence of ground-based visibility measurements of the aerosols coupled with lidar measurements of the layer height, a realistic dust cloud was ported into Moderate Resolution Transmittance (MODTRANT) code. A suite of MODTRAN calculations, constructed around this cloud description, provided spectrally integrated forcing terms at the surface, along with estimates of the local heating/cooling at altitude, with and without the dust cloud. This then led to a closure experiment where MODTRAN predictions of surface forcing are in remarkably good agreement with measurements for a set of solar-zenith angles and aerosol optical depths. 2005 IEEE.
Realistic simulation of different modes of atmospheric variability ranging from diurnal cycle to interannual variation in global climate models (GCMs) depends crucially on the convection trigger criteria. In this study, using the data from constrained variational analysis by the Atmospheric System Research program for singlecolumn models (SCM), the performance of the commonly used convective trigger functions in GCMs is evaluated based on the equitable threat score (ETS) value, a widely used forecast verification metric. From the ETS score, three consistently better-performing trigger functions were identified. They are based on the dilute and undilute convective available potential energy (CAPE) generation rate from large-scale forcing in the free troposphere (hereafter dCAPE) and parcel buoyancy at the lifting condensation level (Bechtold scheme). The key variables used to define these trigger functions are examined in detail. It is found that the dilute dCAPE trigger function performs the best consistently in both the tropical and midlatitude convective environment. Analysis of the composite fields of key variables of the trigger functions, based on the correct prediction, overprediction and underprediction of convection, and correct prediction of no-convection cases for convective onset, brings to light some critical factors responsible for the performance of the trigger functions. The lower-tropospheric advective forcing in dilute dCAPE trigger and vertical velocity in Bechtold trigger are identified to be the most importance ones. Suggestions are offered for further improvements.
A bulk microphysics scheme predicting ice particle habit evolution has been implemented in the Weather Research and Forecasting Model. Large-eddy simulations are analyzed to study the effects of ice habit and number concentration on the bulk ice and liquid masses, dynamics, and lifetime of Arctic mixed-phase boundary layer clouds. The microphysical and dynamical evolution simulated using the adaptive habit scheme is compared with that assuming spherical particles with a density of bulk ice or a reduced density and with mass-dimensional parameterizations. It is found that the adaptive habit method returns an increased (decreased) ice (liquid) mass as compared to spheres and provides a more accurate simulation as compared to dendrite mass-size relations. Using the adaptive habit method, simulations are then completed to understand the microphysical and dynamical interactions within a single-layer mixed-phase stratocumulus cloud observed during flight 31 of the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign. With cloud-top longwave radiative cooling as a function of liquid mass acting as the primary dynamic driver of turbulent eddies within these clouds, the consumption of liquid at the expense of ice growth and subsequent sedimentation holds a strong control on the cloud lifetime. Ice concentrations 4L-1 collapse the liquid layer without any externalmaintaining sources. Layermaintenance is possible at 4L-1 when a constant cloud-top cooling rate or the watermass lost due to sedimentation is supplied. Larger concentrations require a more substantial source of latent or sensible heat for mixed-phase persistence.
We apply a new stationarity-based method for estimating the parameters of a simplified land surface model over a 1010 study area in the Southern Great Plains. The model is then used to calculate evapotranspiration (ET) using the estimated parameters, atmospheric forcing data (from NLDAS-2) and remotely sensed surface soil moisture (from AMSR-E) and temperature (from AMSR-E and MODIS). By exploiting the statistical relationship between the forcing (e.g., precipitation and radiation) and surface states (soil moisture and temperature), the stationarity-based parameter estimation avoids the restrictive requirements of direct calibration (i.e., the need for ground-truth ET), enabling broad applicability. Modeled annual mean ET rates are compared with benchmark values based on runoff data from Global Runoff Data Center (GRDC), and the root mean square error (RMSE) between them is less than 10 Wm-2. Spatial patterns of model estimated ET and of key model parameters indicate that radiation and moisture availability are the controlling factors on ET in the study area. The spatial distributions of the estimated parameters appear reasonable: they are smooth and not overly patchy or random; and they are consistent with the land cover and soil moisture distribution through the area. An important feature of the stationarity-based method demonstrated here is that forcing and surface states need not be continuous. In this application, approximately 30% of the daily surface temperature and moisture data were missing. [All rights reserved Elsevier].
Surface soil moisture is a key variable for describing water and energy exchanges at the surface/atmosphere interface. The triangle or trapezoid method is appropriate for monitoring the regional surface soil moisture status. In this study, an advanced temperature vegetation dryness index (ATVDI) is used to monitor soil moisture status using an improved surface temperature and a vegetation index space that is formed by the theoretical dry edge determined by the surface energy balance principle and the wet edge extracted from water surface temperature. The ATVDI was validated by in situ soil moisture measurements from the Southern Great Plains (SGP) and is compared with a simple temperature vegetation dryness index (STVDI) estimated from the observed dry edge. The results indicate that the theoretical dry edge forms a trapezoid shape during the period of data coverage whereas the observed dry edge does not. Across all points, the R-2 of the ATVDI (0.35) is greater than that for the STVDI (0.28). For almost all of the sites, the R-2 between the ATVDI and soil moisture apparently improved. We also examined the spatial variation, and the value range of the ATVDI is closer than the STVDI to the real soil moisture conditions. The temporal variation of the ATVDI is closer to soil moisture than that of the STVDI, and the ATVDI is more sensitive to rainfall. This study demonstrates that a theoretical dry edge, determined by the energy balance principle, sets a standard for different days and that the ATVDI could monitor soil moisture conditions better than the STVDI could. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A fast scheme for estimation of the instantaneous direct solar irradiance (DSI) at the Earth's surface is developed based on detailed radiative transfer calculations for the full range of atmospheric conditions. The parameterisation is divided into the components for clear sky and overcast conditions. For the clear sky condition, the effects of absorption due to water vapour, carbon dioxide and ozone on the DSI are explicitly treated. The effects of Rayleigh scattering, aerosols are also treated on a physical basis. Based on the clear sky results, the transmittances due to effects of clouds are determined for both liquid and ice clouds. The results are parameterised in terms of cloud visible optical depth. The input variables required for determination of DSI include precipitable water, column ozone amount, CO2 mixing ratio, aerosol optical depth, cloud visible optical depth, surface pressure and solar zenith angle. These variables are all available in numerical weather prediction (NWP) forecast models or can be obtained from satellite observations. Therefore, the scheme can be used to determine the DSI using NWP model products or satellite data. The scheme has been tested using the observations obtained at three stations of the US Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM) program. The relative mean bias differences under clear-sky and all-sky conditions are better than 3.2% and 5.1%, respectively. The correlation coefficients between modelled results and observations are all greater than 0.99. The sampling errors of DSI due to the use of 3-hourly or 1-hourly low frequency in radiation calculations in NWP models are evaluated using the fast scheme and ARM observational data. It is found that these errors can be greater than 800 W m(-2) for many cases where sky condition changes from clear to overcast. Application of the current scheme can reduce these errors to less than 100 W m(-2). (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Based on an accurate atmospheric radiative transfer scheme, a parametrization of instantaneous global horizontal irradiance (GHI) at the Earth's surface has been developed. The scheme is named SUNFLUX and this article describes the development of the scheme for clear-sky conditions. The work dealing with clouds has been published in a separate article. Unlike traditional methods, this study applies the band model idea used in radiative transfer theory to the development of the surface radiation scheme and, importantly, includes absorption and scattering in the parametrization. Thus the scheme is more accurate compared with those using simple empirical approaches and may be applied to any site without being tuned for local conditions. The parametrization of aerosol transmittance and albedo developed by Kokhanovsky et al. is adopted to account for the effects of aerosols. All variables used in the scheme are available in climate models or from satellite observations. Therefore, the parametrization can be used to determine the GHI at the surface under clear-sky conditionsThe scheme is evaluated using observations obtained from three US Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) stations and three stations on the Tibetan Plateau, and the results demonstrate that the scheme is accurate. The relative mean bias difference is less than 4.3% and the relative root-mean-squared difference is less than 0.09%.
Based on an accurate atmospheric radiative transfer scheme, a parametrization of instantaneous global horizontal irradiance (GHI) at the Earth's surface has been developed. The scheme is named SUNFLUX and this article describes the development of the scheme for clear-sky conditions. The work dealing with clouds has been published in a separate article. Unlike traditional methods, this study applies the band model idea used in radiative transfer theory to the development of the surface radiation scheme and, importantly, includes absorption and scattering in the parametrization. Thus the scheme is more accurate compared with those using simple empirical approaches and may be applied to any site without being tuned for local conditions. The parametrization of aerosol transmittance and albedo developed by Kokhanovsky et al. is adopted to account for the effects of aerosols. All variables used in the scheme are available in climate models or from satellite observations. Therefore, the parametrization can be used to determine the GHI at the surface under clear-sky conditions The scheme is evaluated using observations obtained from three US Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) stations and three stations on the Tibetan Plateau, and the results demonstrate that the scheme is accurate. The relative mean bias difference is less than 4.3% and the relative root-mean-squared difference is less than 0.09%.
In this study, the eddy diffusivity/mass flux (EDMF) approach is used to combine parameterizations of nonprecipitating moist convection and boundary layer turbulence. The novel aspect of this EDMF version is the use of a probability density function (PDF) to describe the moist updraft characteristics. A single bulk dry updraft is initialized at the surface and integrated vertically. At each model level, the possibility of condensation within the updraft is considered based on the PDF of updraft moist conserved variables. If the updraft partially condenses, it is split into moist and dry updrafts, which are henceforth integrated separately. The procedure is repeated at each of the model levels above. The single bulk updraft ends up branching into numerous moist and dry updrafts. With this new approach, the need to define a cloud-base closure is circumvented. This new version of EDMF is implemented in a single-column model (SCM) and evaluated using large-eddy simulation (LES) results for the Barbados Oceanographic and Meteorological Experiment (BOMEX) representing steady-state convection over ocean and the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) case representing time-varying convection overland. The new EDMF scheme is able to represent the properties of shallow cumulus and turbulent fluxes in cumulus-topped boundary layers realistically. The parameterized updraft properties partly account for the behavior of the tail of the PDF of moist conserved variables. It is shown that the scheme is not particularly sensitive to the vertical resolution of the SCM or the main model parameters.
The diurnal cycles of near-surface variables and turbulent heat fluxes are evaluated in 16 models from phase 5 of CMIP (CMIP5) and compared with observations from 26 flux tower sites. The diurnal cycle of 2-m temperature agrees well in general with what is observed. The amplitude of the diurnal cycle of wind speed shows a large intermodel spread and is often overestimated at midlatitude grassland sites and underestimated at midlatitude forest sites. There is a substantial systematic negative bias in the nighttime net surface radiative flux, which is partly compensated for by the turbulent heat fluxes. Four models (CESM1, BCC_CSM1.1, HadGEM2-A, and IPSL-CM5A) are evaluated in more detail, including the vertical structure of the atmospheric boundary layer, at the ARM Southern Great Plains site in Oklahoma. At that site, all models tend to frequently overestimate the boundary layer depth and the wind turning in the boundary layer reveals large intermodel differences. In summer, these models exhibit a substantial warm bias with particularly high daytime temperatures. These high temperatures are associated with very small latent heat fluxes, indicating that the soil is too dry, which is likely to impact climate change scenarios. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
Seasonal spatial and temporal gradients for the CO2 mole fraction over North America are examined by creating a climatology from data collected 20042013 by the NOAA/ESRL Global Greenhouse Gas Reference Network Aircraft Program relative to trends observed for CO2 at the Mauna Loa Observatory. The data analyzed are from measurements of air samples collected in specially fabricated flask packages at frequencies of days to months at 22 sites over continental North America and shipped back to Boulder, Colorado, for analysis. These measurements are calibrated relative to the CO2 World Meteorological Organization mole fraction scale. The climatologies of CO2 are compared to climatologies of CO, CH4, SF6, N2O (which are also measured from this sampling program), and winds to understand the dominant transport and chemical and biological processes driving changes in the spatial and temporal mole fractions of CO2 as air passes over continental North America. The measurements show that air masses coming off the Pacific on the west coast of North America are relatively homogeneous with altitude. As air masses flow eastward, the lower section from the surface to 4000 m above sea level (masl) becomes distinctly different from the 40008000 masl section of the column. This is due in part to the extent of the planetary boundary layer, which is directly impacted by continental sources and sinks, and to the vertical gradient in west-to-east wind speeds. The slowdown and southerly shift in winds at most sites during summer months amplify the summertime drawdown relative to what might be expected from local fluxes. This influence counteracts the dilution of summer time CO2 drawdown (known as the rectifier effect) as well as changes the surface influence footprint for each site. An early start to the summertime drawdown, a pronounced seasonal cycle in the column mean (500 to 8000 masl), and small vertical gradients in CO2, CO, CH4, SF6, and N2O at high-latitude western sites such as Poker Flat, Alaska, suggest recent influence of transport from southern latitudes and not local processes. This transport pathway provides a significant contribution to the large seasonal cycle observed in the high latitudes at all altitudes sampled. A sampling analysis of the NOAA/ESRL CarbonTracker model suggests that the average sampling resolution of 22days is sufficient to get a robust estimate of mean seasonal cycle of CO2 during this 10year period but insufficient to detect interannual variability in emissions over North America.
We quantify the relationship between Mount Pinatubo eruption in June 1991 and tropospheric ozone abundances. The ozone reduction in the stratosphere and troposphere following the eruption is simulated by the Whole Atmosphere Community Climate Model and is in good agreement with the ozonesonde observations. Simulated anomalies in the global stratosphere-troposphere flux of ozone following the eruption are well correlated with those in the tropospheric ozone column. Both are at their minimum in late 1992 to early 1993 (-70 Tg yr(-1) in January 1993 for the flux and -1.9 Dobson Unit in November 1992 for tropospheric ozone) and recover after 1995. Therefore, this study identifies the reduced stratosphere-to-troposphere ozone flux as an important driver of the ozone decline in the troposphere following the eruption. A large fraction (67%) of the decrease in the flux is compensated by an increase in tropospheric photochemical ozone production. While both the strength of the residual circulation and the decrease in stratospheric ozone reduce the stratospheric ozone flux, the ozone reduction is identified as the dominant cause.
Atmospheric vertical velocities and advective tendencies are essential as large-scale forcing data to drive single-column models (SCM), cloud-resolving models (CRM) and large-eddy simulations (LES). They cannot be directly measured or easily calculated with great accuracy from field measurements. In the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program, a constrained variational algorithm (1DCVA) has been used to derive large-scale forcing data over a sounding network domain with the aid of flux measurements at the surface and top of the atmosphere (TOA). We extend the 1DCVA algorithm into three dimensions (3DCVA) along with other improvements to calculate gridded large-scale forcing data. We also introduce an ensemble framework using different background data, error covariance matrices and constraint variables to quantify the uncertainties of the large-scale forcing data. The results of sensitivity study show that the derived forcing data and SCM simulated clouds are more sensitive to the background data than to the error covariance matrices and constraint variables, while horizontal moisture advection has relatively large sensitivities to the precipitation, the dominate constraint variable. Using a mid-latitude cyclone case study in March 3rd, 2000 at the ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site, we investigate the spatial distribution of diabatic heating sources (Q1) and moisture sinks (Q2), and show that they are consistent with the satellite clouds and intuitive structure of the mid-latitude cyclone. We also evaluate the Q1 and Q2 in analysis/reanalysis, finding that the regional analysis/reanalysis all tend to underestimate the sub-grid scale upward transport of moist static energy in the lower troposphere. With the uncertainties from large-scale forcing data and observation specified, we compare SCM results and observations and find that models have large biases on cloud properties which could not be fully explained by the uncertainty from the large-scale forcing data and observation. The analysis of GCM and satellite data further verifies the model biases globally and climatologically. ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric sciences. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
Atmospheric vertical velocities and advective tendencies are essential large-scale forcing data to drive single-column models (SCMs), cloud-resolving models (CRMs), and large-eddy simulations (LESs). However, they cannot be directly measured from field measurements or easily calculated with great accuracy. In the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM), a constrained variational algorithm (1-D constrained variational analysis (1DCVA)) has been used to derive large-scale forcing data over a sounding network domain with the aid of flux measurements at the surface and top of the atmosphere (TOA). The 1DCVA algorithm is now extended into three dimensions (3DCVA) along with other improvements to calculate gridded large-scale forcing data, diabatic heating sources (Q(1)), and moisture sinks (Q(2)). Results are presented for a midlatitude cyclone case study on 3 March 2000 at the ARM Southern Great Plains site. These results are used to evaluate the diabatic heating fields in the available products such as Rapid Update Cycle, ERA-Interim, National Centers for Environmental Prediction Climate Forecast System Reanalysis, Modern-Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications, Japanese 55-year Reanalysis, and North American Regional Reanalysis. We show that although the analysis/reanalysis generally captures the atmospheric state of the cyclone, their biases in the derivative terms (Q(1) and Q(2)) at regional scale of a few hundred kilometers are large and all analyses/reanalyses tend to underestimate the subgrid-scale upward transport of moist static energy in the lower troposphere. The 3DCVA-gridded large-scale forcing data are physically consistent with the spatial distribution of surface and TOA measurements of radiation, precipitation, latent and sensible heat fluxes, and clouds that are better suited to force SCMs, CRMs, and LESs. Possible applications of the 3DCVA are discussed.
Previous observational studies have identified three different types of diurnal precipitation variation over the conterminous U.S.: localized afternoon rainfall maxima over the Mississippi and Ohio valleys, propagating mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) from the Rocky Mountain region, and propagating MCSs over the Appalachian Mountains. This study focuses on the second type, which involves nocturnal rainfall maxima from eastward-propagating MCSs on the lee side of the Rocky Mountains. This study evaluates model simulations with regard to rainfall using observations and assesses the impact of microphysics, surface fluxes, radiation, and terrain on the simulated diurnal rainfall variation. A regional high-resolution model was used to conduct a series of real-time forecasts during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) in 2011 over the Southern Great Plains. The model ably captured most heavy precipitation events. When all forecast days are composited, the mean forecast depicts accurate, propagating precipitation features and thus the overall diurnal variation. However, individual forecasts tend to overestimate the rainfall for light precipitation events, have location errors, and misrepresent convection in some cases. A post mission case study is performed on one multi-cell, eastward-propagating MCS event; the results suggest that cold-pool dynamics were an important physical process. Model results also indicate that terrain effects are important during the initial stages of MCS development. By increasing the terrain height by 10%, the simulated rainfall is increased and in better agreement with observations. On the other hand, surface fluxes, and radiation processes only have a secondary effect for short-term simulations.
AbstractThis study extends the Heated Condensation Framework (HCF) presented in Tawfik and Dirmeyer (2014) to include variables for describing the convective background state of the atmosphere used to quantify the contribution of the atmosphere to convective initiation within the context of land-atmosphere coupling. In particular, we demonstrate the ability for the full suite of HCF variables to 1) quantify the amount of latent and sensible heat energy necessary for convective initiation, 2) identify the transition from moistening advantage to boundary layer growth advantage, 3) identify locally originating convection, and 4) compare models and observations, directly highlighting biases in the convective state. These capabilities are illustrated for a clear-sky and convectively active day over the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program Southern Great Plains Central Station (ARM-SGP) using observations, the Rapid Updated Cycle (RUC) operational model, and the North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR). The clear-sky day had a higher and unattainable convective threshold making convective initiation unlikely. The convectively active day had a lower threshold that was attained by mid-afternoon, reflecting local convective triggering. Compared to observations, RUC tended to have the most difficulty representing the convective state and captured the threshold for the clear-sky case only because of compensating biases in the moisture and temperature profiles. Despite capturing the observed moisture profile very well, a stronger surface inversion in NARR returned overestimates in the convective threshold. The companion paper applies the HCF variables introduced here across the continental United States to examine the climatological behavior of convective initiation and local land-atmosphere coupling.
Two-dimensional video disdrometer (2DVD) data were analyzed from two equatorial Indian (Gan) and west Pacific Ocean (Manus) islands where precipitation is primarily organized by the intertropical convergence zone and the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO). The 18 (3.5) months of 2DVD data from Manus (Gan) Island show that 1) the two sites have similar drop size distribution (DSD) spectra of liquid water content, median diameter, rain rate R, radar reflectivity z, normalized gamma number concentration Nw, and other integral rain parameters; 2) there is a robust Nw-based separation between convective (C) and stratiform (S) DSDs at both sites that produces consistent separation in other parameter spaces. The 2DVD data indicate an equatorial, maritime average C/S rainfall accumulation fraction (frequency) of 81/19 (41/59) at these locations. It is hypothesized that convective fraction and frequency estimates are slightly higher than previous radar-based studies, because the ubiquitous weak, shallow convection (10 mm h-1) characteristic of the tropical warm pool is properly resolved by this high-resolution DSD dataset and identification method. This type of convection accounted for about 30% of all rain events and 15% of total rain volume. These rain statistics were reproduced when newly derived C/S R(z) equations were applied to 2DVD-simulated reflectivity. However, the benefits of using separate C/S R(z) equations are only realizable when C/S partitioning properly classifies each rain type. A single R(z) relationship fit to all 2DVD data yielded accurate total rainfall amounts but overestimated (underestimated) the stratiform (convective) rain fraction by 10% and overestimated (underestimated) stratiform (convective) rain accumulation by +50% (-15%). 2015 American Meteorological Society.
A feature detection and extinction retrieval (FEX) algorithm for the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's (ARM) Raman lidar (RL) has been developed. Presented here is Part II of the FEX algorithm: the retrieval of cloud and aerosol extinction profiles. The directly retrieved extinction profiles using the Raman method are supplemented by other retrieval methods developed for elastic backscatter lidars. Portions of features where the extinction-to-backscatter ratios (i.e., lidar ratios) can be obtained are used to infer the lidar ratios for the regions where no such estimate can be made. When neither directly retrieved nor an inferred value can be determined, a climatological lidar ratio is used. This best-estimate approach results in the need to use climatological lidar ratios for less than about 5% of features, except for thin cirrus at the ARM tropical western Pacific Darwin site, where above 12 km, about 20% of clouds use a climatological lidar ratio. A classification of feature type is made, guided by the atmosphere's thermodynamic state and the feature's scattering properties: lidar ratio, backscatter, and depolarization. The contribution of multiple scattering is explicitly considered for each of the ARM RL channels. A comparison between aerosol optical depth from FEX and that from collocated sun photometers over multiple years at two ARM sites shows an agreement (in terms of bias error) of about -0.3% to -4.3% (relative to the sun photometer).
Observational constraints on the change in the radiative energy budget caused by the presence of aerosols, i.e., the aerosol direct radiative effect (DRE), have recently been made using observations from the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite (CALIPSO). CALIPSO observations have the potential to provide improved global estimates of aerosol DRE compared to passive sensor-derived estimates due to CALIPSO's ability to perform vertically resolved aerosol retrievals over all surface types and over cloud. In this study, uncertainties in CALIPSO-inferred aerosol DRE are estimated using multiple years of observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program's Raman lidars at midlatitude and tropical sites. We find that CALIPSO is unable to detect all radiatively significant aerosol, resulting in an underestimate in the magnitude of the aerosol DRE by 30-50% at the two ARM sites. The undetected aerosol is likely the consequence of random noise in CALIPSO measurements and therefore will affect global observations as well. This suggests that the global aerosol DRE inferred from CALIPSO observations are likely too weak. Also examined is the impact of the ratio of extinction-to-backscatter (i.e., the lidar ratio) whose value CALIPSO retrievals must assume to obtain the aerosol extinction profile. It is shown that if CALIPSO can reproduce the climatological value of the lidar ratio at a given location, then the aerosol DRE there can be accurately calculated (within about 3%).
Observations of clouds from the ground-based U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program and satellite-based A-train are used to compute cloud radiative forcing profiles over the ARM Darwin, Australia site. Cloud properties are obtained from both radar (the ARM Millimeter Cloud Radar (MMCR) and the CloudSat satellite in the A-train) and lidar (the ARM Micropulse lidar (MPL) and the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observation (CALIPSO) satellite in the A-train) observations. Cloud microphysical properties are taken from combined radar and lidar retrievals for ice clouds and radar-only or lidar-only retrievals for liquid clouds. Large, statistically significant differences of up to 1.43K/d exist between the mean ARM and A-train net cloud radiative forcing profiles. The majority of the difference in cloud radiative forcing profiles is shown to be due to a large difference in the cloud fraction above 12km. Above this altitude, the A-train cloud fraction is significantly larger because many more clouds are detected by CALIPSO than by the ground-based MPL. It is shown that the MPL is unable to observe as many high clouds as CALIPSO due to being more frequently attenuated and a poorer sensitivity. We also isolate the difference in cloud radiative forcing due to sampling and retrieval differences which are of comparable importance but are of smaller impact than cloud fraction differences. This study demonstrates that A-train observations are better suited for the calculation of cloud radiative forcing profiles at Darwin. In addition, we find that it is necessary to supplement CloudSat with CALIPSO observations to obtain accurate cloud radiative forcing profiles.
Lidar observations of cirrus cloud macrophysical properties over the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program Darwin, Australia, site are compared from the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observation (CALIPSO) satellite, the ground-based ARM micropulse lidar (MPL), and the ARM Raman lidar (RL). Comparisons are made using the subset of profiles where the lidar beam is not fully attenuated. Daytime measurements using the RL are shown to be relatively unaffected by the solar background and are therefore suited for checking the validity of diurnal cycles. RL and CALIPSO cloud fraction profiles show good agreement while the MPL detects significantly less cirrus, particularly during the daytime. Both MPL and CALIPSO observations show that cirrus clouds occur less frequently during the day than at night at all altitudes. In contrast, the RL diurnal cycle is significantly different from zero only below about 11km; where it is of opposite sign (i.e., more clouds during the daytime). For cirrus geometrical thickness, the MPL and CALIPSO observations agree well and both data sets have significantly thinner clouds during the daytime than the RL. From the examination of hourly MPL and RL cirrus cloud thickness and through the application of daytime detection limits to all CALIPSO data, we find that the decreased MPL and CALIPSO cloud thickness during the daytime is very likely a result of increased daytime noise. This study highlights the significant improvement the RL provides (compared to the MPL) in the ARM program's ability to observe tropical cirrus clouds and will help improve our understanding of these clouds. The RL also provides a valuable ground-based lidar data set for the evaluation of CALIPSO observations.
A feature detection and extinction retrieval (FEX) algorithm for the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's (ARM) Raman lidar (RL) has been developed. Presented here is Part I of the FEX algorithm: the detection of features including both clouds and aerosols. The approach of FEX is to use multiple quantities scattering ratios derived using elastic and nitrogen channel signals from two fields of view, the scattering ratio derived using only the elastic channel, and the total volume depolarization ratioto identify features using range-dependent detection thresholds. FEX is designed to be context sensitive with thresholds determined for each profile by calculating the expected clear-sky signal and noise. The use of multiple quantities provides complementary depictions of cloud and aerosol locations and allows for consistency checks to improve the accuracy of the feature mask. The depolarization ratio is shown to be particularly effective at detecting optically thin features containing nonspherical particles, such as cirrus clouds. Improvements over the existing ARM RL cloud mask are shown. The performance of FEX is validated against a collocated micropulse lidar and observations from the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) satellite over the ARM Darwin, Australia, site. While the focus is on a specific lidar system, the FEX framework presented here is suitable for other Raman or high spectral resolution lidars.
Statistics of ice cloud macrophysical and optical properties from the Cloud-Aerosol LIdar with Orthogonal Polarization (CALIOP) instrument on board the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) satellite are compared with those from ground-based lidar observations over a 31 month period. Ground-based lidar observations are taken from the micropulse lidars (MPL) at the three Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) tropical western pacific (TWP) sites: Manus, Nauru and Darwin. CALIPSO observations show a larger cloud fraction at high altitudes while the ground-based MPLs show a larger cloud fraction at low altitudes. The difference in mean ice cloud top and base heights at the Manus and Nauru sites are all within 0.51 km, although differences are statistically significant. Mean ice cloud geometrical thickness agree to within 0.05 km at the Manus and Nauru sites. Larger differences exist at Darwin due to excessive degradation of the MPL output power during our sampling period. Both sets of observations show thicker clouds during the nighttime which may be real but could also be partially an artifact of the decreased signal-to-noise ratio during the daytime. The number of ice cloud layers per profile are also shown to be consistent after accounting for the difference in spatial resolution. For cloud optical depths, four different retrieval methods are compared, two for each set of observations. All products show that the majority of ice cloud optical depths (-60%) fall below an optical depth of 0.2. For most comparisons all four retrievals agree to within the uncertainty intervals. We find that both CALIPSO retrievals agree best to ground-based optical depths when the lidar ratio in the latter is retrieved instead of set to a fixed value. Also thoroughly compared is the cloud properties for the subset of ice clouds which reside in the tropical tropopause layer (TTL).
Lidar observations of cirrus cloud macrophysical properties over the U.S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program Darwin, Australia, site are compared from the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observation (CALIPSO) satellite, the ground-based ARM micropulse lidar (MPL), and the ARM Raman lidar (RL). Comparisons are made using the subset of profiles where the lidar beam is not fully attenuated. Daytime measurements using the RL are shown to be relatively unaffected by the solar background and are therefore suited for checking the validity of diurnal cycles. RL and CALIPSO cloud fraction profiles show good agreement while the MPL detects significantly less cirrus, particularly during the daytime. Both MPL and CALIPSO observations show that cirrus clouds occur less frequently during the day than at night at all altitudes. In contrast, the RL diurnal cycle is significantly different from zero only below about 11 km; where it is of opposite sign (i.e., more clouds during the daytime). For cirrus geometrical thickness, the MPL and CALIPSO observations agree well and both data sets have significantly thinner clouds during the daytime than the RL. From the examination of hourly MPL and RL cirrus cloud thickness and through the application of daytime detection limits to all CALIPSO data, we find that the decreased MPL and CALIPSO cloud thickness during the daytime is very likely a result of increased daytime noise. This study highlights the significant improvement the RL provides (compared to the MPL) in the ARM program's ability to observe tropical cirrus clouds and will help improve our understanding of these clouds. The RL also provides a valuable ground-based lidar data set for the evaluation of CALIPSO observations.
Aerosol optical properties were measured by the DOE/ARM (US Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurements) Program Mobile Facility during the Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP) campaign deployed at Cape Cod, Massachusetts, for a 1-year period (from summer 2012 to summer 2013). Measured optical properties included aerosol light-absorption coefficient (sigma(ap)) at low relative humidity (RH) and aerosol light-scattering coefficient (sigma(sp)) at low and at RH values varying from 30 to 85 %, approximately. Calculated variables included the single scattering albedo (SSA), the scattering Angstrom exponent (SAE) and the scattering enhancement factor (f(RH)). Over the period of measurement, f (RH=80 %) had a mean value of 1.9 +/- 0.3 and 1.8 +/- 0.4 in the PM10 and PM1 fractions, respectively. Higher f (RH=80 %) values were observed for wind directions from 0 to 180 degrees (marine sector) together with high SSA and low SAE values. The wind sector from 225 to 315 degrees was identified as an anthropogenically influenced sector, and it was characterized by smaller, darker and less hygroscopic aerosols. For the marine sector, f (RH=80 %) was 2.2 compared with a value of 1.8 obtained for the anthropogenically influenced sector. The air-mass backward trajectory analysis agreed well with the wind sector analysis. It shows low cluster to cluster variability except for air masses coming from the Atlantic Ocean that showed higher hygroscopicity. Knowledge of the effect of RH on aerosol optical properties is of great importance for climate forcing calculations and for comparison of in situ measurements with satellite and remote sensing retrievals. In this sense, predictive capability of f (RH) for use in climate models would be enhanced if other aerosol parameters could be used as proxies to estimate hygroscopic growth. Toward this goal, we propose an exponential equation that successfully estimates aerosol hygroscopicity as a function of SSA at Cape Cod. Further work is needed to determine if the equation obtained is valid in other environments.
The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) operates the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Airborne Facility (AAF) to provide airborne research platforms for atmospheric scientists in support of the DOE Atmospheric System Research (ASR) program. In addition the AAF provides platforms for federal, state, and industrial laboratories and universities to carry out airborne research. The AAF can provide and operate a comprehensive suite of aerosol instruments, cloud probes, gas phase instruments, and radiometers. The AAF operates a Gulfstream-I (G-1) aircraft; maintains a comprehensive suite of in-situ probes and remote sensing instruments for clouds, aerosols, and trace gases; and operates a "virtual hangar". The G-1 is a large twin turboprop capable of measurements up to altitudes of 7.5 km and over a range of 2,800 kilometers. It can be operated at speeds that enable short transit times to remote field sites throughout the world in combination with relatively slow sampling speeds once on site. The aircraft is configured for versatile research applications and accommodates a variety of external probes and internal sampling systems for a wide range of measurements. Recent modifications now enable the aircraft to carry an additional six wing-mounted probes and uplooking radiometers in the center roof hatch. The AAF virtual hangar leases aircraft from DOE approved operators to carry out scientific missions that are outside of the G-1 capabilities. The presentation will explain how the AAF is conducting measurements of aerosol properties, the cloud microphysical properties, the radiative budget of the atmosphere, and facilitating intercomparisons with satellite based remote sensors.
A simple mass-flux cumulus parameterization scheme suitable for large-scale atmospheric models is presented. The scheme is based on a bulk-cloud approach and has the following properties: (1) Deep convection is launched at the level of maximum moist static energy above the top of the boundary layer. It is triggered if there is positive convective available potential energy (CAPE) and relative humidity of the air at the lifting level of convection cloud is greater than 75%; (2) Convective updrafts for mass, dry static energy, moisture, cloud liquid water and momentum are parameterized by a one-dimensional entrainment/ detrainment bulk-cloud model. The lateral entrainment of the environmental air into the unstable ascending parcel before it rises to the lifting condensation level is considered. The entrainment/detrainment amount for the updraft cloud parcel is separately determined according to the increase/ decrease of updraft parcel mass with altitude, and the mass change for the adiabatic ascent cloud parcel with altitude is derived from a total energy conservation equation of the whole adiabatic system in which involves the updraft cloud parcel and the environment; (3) The convective downdraft is assumed saturated and originated from the level of minimum environmental saturated equivalent potential temperature within the updraft cloud; (4) The mass flux at the base of convective cloud is determined by a closure scheme suggested by Zhang (J Geophys Res 107(D14), doi: 10.1029/2001JD001005, 2002) in which the increase/decrease of CAPE due to changes of the thermodynamic states in the free troposphere resulting from convection approximately balances the decrease/increase resulting from large-scale processes. Evaluation of the proposed convection scheme is performed by using a single column model (SCM) forced by the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's (ARM) summer 1995 and 1997 Intensive Observing Period (IOP) observations, and field observations from the Global Atmospheric Research Program's Atlantic Tropical Experiment (GATE) and the Tropical Ocean and Global Atmosphere Coupled Ocean-Atmosphere Response Experiment (TOGA COARE). The SCM can generally capture the convective events and produce a realistic timing of most events of intense precipitation although there are some biases in the strength of simulated precipitation.
A detailed examination is made in both observations and the Community Earth System Model (CESM) of relationships among top-of-atmosphere radiation, water vapor, temperatures, and precipitation for 2000-2014 to assess the origins of radiative perturbations and climate feedbacks empirically. The 30-member large ensemble coupled runs are analyzed along with one run with specified sea surface temperatures for 1994 to 2005 (to avoid volcanic eruptions). The vertical structure of the CESM temperature profile tends to be top heavy in the model, with too much deep convection and not enough lower stratospheric cooling as part of the response to tropospheric heating. There is too much absorbed solar radiation (ASR) over the Southern Oceans and not enough in the tropics, and El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is too large in amplitude in this version of the model. However, the covariability of monthly mean anomalies produces remarkably good replication of most of the observed relationships. There is a lot more high-frequency variability in radiative fluxes than in temperature, highlighting the role of clouds and transient weather systems in the radiation statistics. Over the Warm Pool in the tropical western Pacific and Indian Oceans, where nonlocal effects from the Walker circulation driven by the ENSO events are important, several related biases emerge: in response to high SST anomalies there is more precipitation, water vapor, and cloud and less ASR and outgoing longwave radiation in the model than observed. Different model global mean trends are evident, however, possibly hinting at too much positive cloud feedback in the model.
A novel technique based on Ka-W band dual-wavelength Doppler spectra has been developed for the simultaneous retrieval of binned rain drop size distributions (DSD) and air state parameters like vertical wind and air broadening caused by turbulence and wind shear. The rationale underpinning the method consists in exploiting the peculiar features observed in Doppler spectra caused by the wavelength dependence of scattering and absorption properties. A notional study based on a large data set of DSDs measured by a two-dimensional video disdrometer demonstrates that the retrieval performs best for small/moderate air broadening spectral width and when mean volume diameters exceed at least 1 mm. The retrieval is also limited to ranges below cloud base and where the signal-to-noise ratio of both radars exceed 10 dB, which rules out regions affected by strong attenuation. Broadly speaking, it is applicable to rain rates comprised between roughly 1 and 30 mm h-1. Preliminary retrieval for observations at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site shows very good agreement with independent reflectivity measurements from a 0.915 GHz wind profiler. The proposed methodology shows great potential in linking microphysics to dynamics in rainfall studies.
The Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program has recently initiated a new research avenue toward a better characterization of the transition from cloud to precipitation. Dualwavelength techniques applied to millimeter-wavelength radars and a Rayleigh reference have a great potential for rain-rate retrievals directly from dual-wavelength ratio measurements. In this context, the recent reconfiguration of the ARM 915-MHz wind profilers in a vertically pointing mode makes these instruments the ideal candidate for providing the Rayleigh reflectivity/Doppler velocity reference. Prior to any scientific study, the wind profiler data must be carefully quality checked. This work describes the signal postprocessing steps that are essential for the delivery of high-quality reflectivity and mean Doppler velocity products-that is, the estimation of the noise floor from clear-air echoes, the absolute calibration with a collocated disdrometer, the dealiasing of Doppler velocities, and the merging of the different modes of the wind profiler. The improvement added by the proposed postprocessing is confirmed by comparison with a high-quality S-band profiler deployed at the ARM Southern Great Plains site during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment. With the addition of a vertically pointing mode and with the postprocessing described in this work in place, besides being a key asset for wind research wind profilers observations may therefore become a centerpiece for rain studies in the years to come. 2013 American Meteorological Society.
During the Last Glacial Maximum, tropical sea surface temperatures were 1 to 3 degrees C cooler than present(1-4), but the altitude of the snowlines of tropical glaciers(5,6) was lower than would be expected in light of these sea surface temperatures. Indeed, both glacial and twentieth-century snowlines seem to require lapse rates that are steeper than a moist adiabat(7,8). Here we use estimates of Last Glacial Maximum sea surface temperature in the Indo-Pacific warm pool based on the clumped isotope palaeotemperature proxy in planktonic foraminifera and coccoliths, along with radiative-convective calculations of vertical atmospheric thermal structure, to assess the controls on tropical glacier snowlines. Using extensive new data sets for the region, we demonstrate that mean environmental lapse rates are steeper than moist adiabatic during the recent and glacial. We reconstruct glacial sea surface temperatures 4 to 5 degrees C cooler than modern. We include modern and glacial sea surface temperatures in calculations of atmospheric convection that account for mixing between rising air and ambient air, and derive tropical glacier snowlines with altitudes consistent with twentieth-century and Last Glacial Maximum reconstructions. Sea surface temperature changes <= 3 degrees C are excluded unless glacial relative humidity values were outside the range associated with deep convection in the modern. We conclude that the entrainment of ambient air into rising air masses significantly alters the vertical temperature structure of the troposphere in modern and ancient regions of deep convection. Furthermore, if all glacial tropical temperatures were cooler than previously estimated, it would imply a higher equilibrium climate sensitivity than included in present models(9,10).
The global burden of atmospheric methane has been increasing over the past decade, but the causes are not well understood. National inventory estimates from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency indicate no significant trend in U.S. anthropogenic methane emissions from 2002 to present. Here we use satellite retrievals and surface observations of atmospheric methane to suggest that U.S. methane emissions have increased by more than 30% over the 2002-2014 period. The trend is largest in the central part of the country, but we cannot readily attribute it to any specific source type. This large increase in U.S. methane emissions could account for 30-60% of the global growth of atmospheric methane seen in the past decade.
We use 2009-2011 space-borne methane observations from the Greenhouse Gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT) to estimate global and North American methane emissions with 4A degrees x 5A degrees and up to 50 km x 50 km spatial resolution, respectively. GEOS-Chem and GOSAT data are first evaluated with atmospheric methane observations from surface and tower networks (NOAA/ESRL, TCCON) and aircraft (NOAA/ESRL, HIPPO), using the GEOS-Chem chemical transport model as a platform to facilitate comparison of GOSAT with in situ data. This identifies a high-latitude bias between the GOSAT data and GEOS-Chem that we correct via quadratic regression. Our global adjoint-based inversion yields a total methane source of 539 Tg a(-1) with some important regional corrections to the EDGARv4.2 inventory used as a prior. Results serve as dynamic boundary conditions for an analytical inversion of North American methane emissions using radial basis functions to achieve high resolution of large sources and provide error characterization. We infer a US anthropogenic methane source of 40.2-42.7 Tg a(-1), as compared to 24.9-27.0 Tg a(-1) in the EDGAR and EPA bottom-up inventories, and 30.0-44.5 Tg a(-1) in recent inverse studies. Our estimate is supported by independent surface and aircraft data and by previous inverse studies for California. We find that the emissions are highest in the southern-central US, the Central Valley of California, and Florida wetlands; large isolated point sources such as the US Four Corners also contribute. Using prior information on source locations, we attribute 29-44 % of US anthropogenic methane emissions to livestock, 22-31 % to oil/gas, 20 % to landfills/wastewater, and 11-15 % to coal. Wetlands contribute an additional 9.0-10.1 Tg a(-1).
High temporal and vertical resolution water vapor measurements by Raman and differential absorption lidar systems have been used to characterize the turbulent fluctuations in the water vapor mixing ratio field in convective mixed layers. Since daytime Raman lidar measurements are inherently noisy (due to solar background and weak signal strengths), the analysis approach needs to quantify and remove the contribution of the instrument noise in order to derive the desired atmospheric water vapor mixing ratio variance and skewness profiles. This is done using the approach outlined by Lenschow et al.; however, an intercomparison with in situ observations was not performed. Water vapor measurements were made by a diode laser hygrometer flown on a Twin Otter aircraft during the Routine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program Aerial Facility Clouds with Low Optical Water Depths Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign over the ARM Southern Great Plains (SGP) site in 2009. Two days with Twin Otter flights were identified where the convective mixed layer was quasi stationary, and hence the 10-s, 75-m data from the SGP Raman lidar could be analyzed to provide profiles of water vapor mixing ratio variance and skewness. Airborne water vapor observations measured during level flight legs were compared to the Raman lidar data, demonstrating good agreement in both variance and skewness. The results also illustrate the challenges of comparing a point sensor making measurements over time to a moving platform making similar measurements horizontally.
The U. S. Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program's Raman lidar at the ARM Southern Great Plains site in north central Oklahoma has collected water vapor mixing ratio (q) profile data more than 90% of the time since October 2004. Three hundred (300) cases were identified where the convective boundary layer was quasi-stationary and well mixed for a 2 h period, and q mean, variance, third-order moment, and skewness profiles were derived from the 10 s, 75 m resolution data. These cases span the entire calendar year, and demonstrate that the q variance profiles at the mixed layer (ML) top changes seasonally and is strongly related to the gradient of q across the interfacial layer. The q variance at the top of the ML shows onlyweak correlations (r < 0.3) with sensible heat flux, Deardorff convective velocity scale, and turbulence kinetic energy measured at the surface. The median q skewness profile is most negative at 0.85 z(i), zero at approximately z(i), and positive above z(i), where z(i) is the depth of the convective ML. The spread in the q skewness profiles is smallest between 0.95 z(i) and z(i). The q skewness at altitudes between 0.6 z(i) and 1.2 z(i) is correlated with the magnitude of the q variance at z(i), with increasingly negative values of skewness observed lower down in the ML as the variance at z(i) increases, suggesting that in cases with larger variance at z(i) there is deeper penetration of the warm, dry free tropospheric air into the ML.
Combinations of dual-polarization measurements at various radar frequencies and elevation angles together with realistic scattering computations of snowflakes are compared in order to study how they can be used to characterize falling snow. In the study, we use seven different ice crystal habits, including graupel, and different types of aggregates. The single-particle scattering is modeled using the discrete-dipole approximation, and the backscattering cross sections are integrated over exponential size distributions. We take advantage of statistical properties of the large set of scattering results to determine which combination of measurements provide overall best characterization of snow types. We find that a combination of the differential reflectivity and the depolarization ratios, especially in the circular basis, is useful in the characterization, while the dual-frequency ratios at higher frequencies than the Ku band are almost as good. Also, the assumption of preferential orientation for single ice crystals plays an important role when analyzing the results. These conclusions are tested against both airborne and ground-based radar measurements obtained during the Global Precipitation Measurement Cold-season Precipitation Experiment field campaign in 2012. The results show that dual-polarization and dual-frequency measurements provide complimentary information and can narrow down the characterization of falling snow considerably.
During the 2006 Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) in the tropics, the 2008 Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) in the Arctic, and the 2010 Small PARTicles In CirrUS (SPARTICUS) campaign at mid-latitudes, high-resolution images of ice crystals were recorded by a Cloud Particle Imager at temperatures (T) between -87 and 0 degrees C. The projected maximum dimension (D'), length (L'), and width (W') of pristine columns, plates, and component bullets of bullet rosettes were measured using newly developed software, the Ice Crystal Ruler. The number of bullets in each bullet rosette was also measured. Column crystals were further distinguished as either horizontally oriented columns or columns with other orientations to eliminate any orientation effect on the measured dimensions. The dimensions and aspect ratios (AR, the dimension of the major axis divided by the dimension of the minor axis) of crystals were determined as functions of temperature, geophysical location, and type of cirrus. Dimensions of crystals generally increased with temperature. Columns and bullets had larger dimensions (i.e., W') of the minor axis (i.e., a axis) for a given dimension (i.e., D' or L') of the major axis (i.e., c axis), and thus smaller AR, as T increased, whereas this trend did not occur for plate crystals. The average number of branches in bullet rosettes was 5.50 +/- 1.35 during three campaigns and 6.32 +/- 1.34 (5.46 +/- 1.34; 4.95 +/- 1.01) during TWP-ICE (SPARTICUS; ISDAC). The AR of bullets increased with the number of branches in bullet rosettes. Most dimensions of crystals and ARs of columnar crystals measured during SPARTICUS were larger than those measured during TWP-ICE and ISDAC at -67 < T < -35 degrees C and at 40 < T < -15 degrees C, re-spectively. The relative occurrence of varying pristine habits depended strongly on cirrus type (i.e., anvil or non-anvil clouds), with plates especially occurring more frequently in anvils. The L-W relationships of columns derived using current data exhibited a strong dependence on temperature; similar relationships determined in previous studies were within the range of the current data.
Two major droughts in the past decade had large impacts on carbon exchange in the Amazon. Recent analysis of vertical profile measurements of atmospheric CO2 and CO by Gatti et al. (2014) suggests that the 2010 drought turned the normally close-to-neutral annual Amazon carbon balance into a substantial source of nearly 0.5 PgC/yr, revealing a strong drought response. In this study, we revisit this hypothesis and interpret not only the same CO2/CO vertical profile measurements but also additional constraints on carbon exchange such as satellite observations of CO, burned area, and fire hot spots. The results from our CarbonTracker South America data assimilation system suggest that carbon uptake by vegetation was indeed reduced in 2010 but that the magnitude of the decrease strongly depends on the estimated 2010 and 2011 biomass burning emissions. We have used fire products based on burned area (Global Fire Emissions Database version 4), satellite-observed CO columns (Infrared Atmospheric Sounding Interferometer), fire radiative power (Global Fire Assimilation System version 1), and fire hot spots (Fire Inventory from NCAR version 1), and found an increase in biomass burning emissions in 2010 compared to 2011 of 0.16 to 0.24 PgC/yr. We derived a decrease of biospheric uptake ranging from 0.08 to 0.26 PgC/yr, with the range determined from a set of alternative inversions using different biomass burning estimates. Our numerical analysis of the 2010 Amazon drought results in a total reduction of carbon uptake of 0.24 to 0.50 PgC/yr and turns the balance from carbon sink to source. Our findings support the suggestion that the hydrological cycle will be an important driver of future changes in Amazonian carbon exchange.
The representation of deep convection in general circulation models is in part informed by cloud-resolving models (CRMs) that function at higher spatial and temporal resolution; however, recent studies have shown that CRMs often fail at capturing the details of deep convection updrafts. With the goal of providing constraint on CRM simulation of deep convection updrafts, ground-based remote sensing observations are analyzed and statistically correlated for four deep convection events observed during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E). Since positive values of specific differential phase observed above the melting level are associated with deep convection updraft cells, so-called columns are analyzed using two scanning polarimetric radars in Oklahoma: the National Weather Service Vance WSR-88D (KVNX) and the Department of Energy C-band Scanning Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Precipitation Radar (C-SAPR). KVNX and C-SAPR volumes and columns are then statistically correlated with vertical winds retrieved via multi-Doppler wind analysis, lightning flash activity derived from the Oklahoma Lightning Mapping Array, and KVNX differential reflectivity . Results indicate strong correlations of volume above the melting level with updraft mass flux, lightning flash activity, and intense rainfall. Analysis of columns reveals signatures of changing updraft properties from one storm event to another as well as during event evolution. Comparison of to shows commonalities in information content of each, as well as potential problems with associated with observational artifacts.
The processes and feedbacks associated with the mass flux of shallow cumulus clouds over land are studied by analyzing the results from large-eddy simulations and a mixed-layer model. The primary focus is to study the development of the (well mixed) subcloud layer and understand the four primary feedbacks between the subcloud-layer dynamics and cumulus mass flux. Guided by numerical experiments in large-eddy simulations that show the transition from clear to cloudy boundary layers at midlatitudes over land, the feedbacks introduced by shallow cumuli are first conceptually described. To study the complex interplay between the subcloud and cloud layer, a mixed-layer model is proposed and validated with large-eddy simulations for the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains case. The mixed-layer model is shown to identify and reproduce the most relevant feedbacks in the transition from clear to cloudy boundary layers: a reduced mixed-layer growth and drying of the subcloud layer by enhanced entrainment and mass flux transport of moisture to the cloud layer. To complete the study, the strength of the different feedbacks is further quantified by an analysis of the individual contributions to the tendency of the relative humidity at the top of the mixed layer. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
The processes and feedbacks associated with the mass flux of shallow cumulus clouds over land are studied by analyzing the results from large-eddy simulations and a mixed-layer model. The primary focus is to study the development of the (well mixed) subcloud layer and understand the four primary feedbacks between the subcloud-layer dynamics and cumulus mass flux. Guided by numerical experiments in large-eddy simulations that show the transition from clear to cloudy boundary layers at midlatitudes over land, the feedbacks introduced by shallow cumuli are first conceptually described. To study the complex interplay between the subcloud and cloud layer, a mixed-layer model is proposed and validated with large-eddy simulations for the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains case. The mixed-layer model is shown to identify and reproduce the most relevant feedbacks in the transition from clear to cloudy boundary layers: a reduced mixed-layer growth and drying of the subcloud layer by enhanced entrainment and mass flux transport of moisture to the cloud layer. To complete the study, the strength of the different feedbacks is further quantified by an analysis of the individual contributions to the tendency of the relative humidity at the top of the mixed layer.
The Greenland ice sheet has become one of the main contributors to global sea level rise, predominantly through increased meltwater runoff. The main drivers of Greenland ice sheet runoff, however, remain poorly understood. Here we show that clouds enhance meltwater runoff by about one-third relative to clear skies, using a unique combination of active satellite observations, climate model data and snow model simulations. This impact results from a cloud radiative effect of 29.5 (+/- 5.2) W m(-2). Contrary to conventional wisdom, however, the Greenland ice sheet responds to this energy through a new pathway by which clouds reduce meltwater refreezing as opposed to increasing surface melt directly, thereby accelerating bare-ice exposure and enhancing meltwater runoff. The high sensitivity of the Greenland ice sheet to both ice-only and liquid-bearing clouds highlights the need for accurate cloud representations in climate models, to better predict future contributions of the Greenland ice sheet to global sea level rise.
Many global circulation models (GCMs) exhibit a persistent bias in the 2 m temperature over the midlatitude continents, present in short-range forecasts as well as long-term climate simulations. A number of hypotheses have been proposed, revolving around deficiencies in the soil-vegetation-atmosphere energy exchange, poorly resolved low-level boundary-layer clouds or misrepresentations of deep-convective storms.A common approach to evaluating model biases focuses on the model-mean state. However, this makes difficult an unambiguous interpretation of the origins of a bias, given that biases are the result of the superposition of impacts of clouds and land-surface deficiencies over multiple time steps. This article presents a new methodology to objectively detect the role of clouds in the creation of a surface warm bias. A unique feature of this study is its focus on temperature-error growth at the time-step level.It is shown that compositing the temperature-error growth by the coinciding bias in total downwelling radiation provides unambiguous evidence for the role that clouds play in the creation of the surface warm bias during certain portions of the day. Furthermore, the application of an objective cloud-regime classification allows for the detection of the specific cloud regimes that matter most for the creation of the bias.We applied this method to two state-of-the-art GCMs that exhibit a distinct warm bias over the Southern Great Plains of the USA. Our analysis highlights that, in one GCM, biases in deep-convective and low-level clouds contribute most to the temperature-error growth in the afternoon and evening respectively. In the second GCM, deep clouds persist too long in the evening, leading to a growth of the temperature bias. The reduction of the temperature bias in both models in the morning and the growth of the bias in the second GCM in the afternoon could not be assigned to a cloud issue, but are more likely caused by a land-surface deficiency.
Many global circulation models (GCMs) exhibit a persistent bias in the 2 m temperature over the midlatitude continents, present in short-range forecasts as well as long-term climate simulations. A number of hypotheses have been proposed, revolving around deficiencies in the soil-vegetation-atmosphere energy exchange, poorly resolved low-level boundary-layer clouds or misrepresentations of deep-convective storms. A common approach to evaluating model biases focuses on the model-mean state. However, this makes difficult an unambiguous interpretation of the origins of a bias, given that biases are the result of the superposition of impacts of clouds and land-surface deficiencies over multiple time steps. This article presents a new methodology to objectively detect the role of clouds in the creation of a surface warm bias. A unique feature of this study is its focus on temperature-error growth at the time-step level. It is shown that compositing the temperature-error growth by the coinciding bias in total downwelling radiation provides unambiguous evidence for the role that clouds play in the creation of the surface warm bias during certain portions of the day. Furthermore, the application of an objective cloud-regime classification allows for the detection of the specific cloud regimes that matter most for the creation of the bias. We applied this method to two state-of-the-art GCMs that exhibit a distinct warm bias over the Southern Great Plains of the USA. Our analysis highlights that, in one GCM, biases in deep-convective and low-level clouds contribute most to the temperature-error growth in the afternoon and evening respectively. In the second GCM, deep clouds persist too long in the evening, leading to a growth of the temperature bias. The reduction of the temperature bias in both models in the morning and the growth of the bias in the second GCM in the afternoon could not be assigned to a cloud issue, but are more likely caused by a land-surface deficiency. 2015 Royal Meteorological Society.
This paper presents a detailed analysis of convection-permitting cloud simulations, aimed at increasing the understanding of the role of parameterized cloud microphysics in the simulation of mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) in the tropical western Pacific (TWP). Simulations with three commonly used bulk microphysics parameterizations with varying complexity have been compared against satellite-retrieved cloud properties. An MCS identification and tracking algorithm was applied to the observations and the simulations to evaluate the number, spatial extent, and microphysical properties of individual cloud systems. Different from many previous studies, these individual cloud systems could be tracked over larger distances because of the large TWP domain studied. The analysis demonstrates that the simulation of MCSs is very sensitive to the parameterization of microphysical processes. The most crucial element was found to be the fall velocity of frozen condensate. Differences in this fall velocity between the experiments were more related to differences in particle number concentrations than to fall speed parameterization. Microphysics schemes that exhibit slow sedimentation rates for ice aloft experience a larger buildup of condensate in the upper troposphere. This leads to more numerous and/or larger MCSs with larger anvils. Mean surface precipitation was found to be overestimated and insensitive to the microphysical schemes employed in this study. In terms of the investigated properties, the performances of complex two-moment schemes were not superior to the simpler one-moment schemes, since explicit prediction of number concentration does not necessarily improve processes such as ice nucleation, the aggregation of ice crystals into snowflakes, and their sedimentation characteristics.
This is a hardcoded string to represent the absent abstract
Ten 3-D cloud-resolving model simulations and four 3-D limited area model simulations of an intense mesoscale convective system observed on 23-24 January 2006 during the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) are compared with each other and with observed radar reflectivity fields and dual-Doppler retrievals of vertical wind speeds in an attempt to explain published results showing a high bias in simulated convective radar reflectivity aloft. This high-bias results from ice water content being large, which is a product of large, strong convective updrafts, although hydrometeor size distribution assumptions modulate the size of this bias. Making snow mass more realistically proportional to D-2 rather than D-3 eliminates unrealistically large snow reflectivities over 40 dBZ in some simulations. Graupel, unlike snow, produces high biased reflectivity in all simulations, which is partly a result of parameterized microphysics but also partly a result of overly intense simulated updrafts. Peak vertical velocities in deep convective updrafts are greater than dual-Doppler-retrieved values, especially in the upper troposphere. Freezing of liquid condensate, often rain, lofted above the freezing level in simulated updraft cores greatly contributes to these excessive upper tropospheric vertical velocities. The strongest simulated updraft cores are nearly undiluted, with some of the strongest showing supercell characteristics during the multicellular (presquall) stage of the event. Decreasing horizontal grid spacing from 900 to 100 m slightly weakens deep updraft vertical velocity and moderately decreases the amount of condensate aloft but not enough to match observational retrievals. Therefore, overly intense simulated updrafts may additionally be a product of unrealistic interactions between convective dynamics, parameterized microphysics, and large-scale model forcing that promote different convective strengths than observed.
Ten 3-D cloud-resolving model (CRM) simulations and four 3-D limited area model (LAM) simulations of an intense mesoscale convective system observed on 23-24 January 2006 during the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) are compared with each other and with observations and retrievals from a scanning polarimetric radar, colocated UHF and VHF vertical profilers, and a Joss-Waldvogel disdrometer in an attempt to explain a low bias in simulated stratiform rainfall. Despite different forcing methodologies, similar precipitation microphysics errors appear in CRMs and LAMs with differences that depend on the details of the bulk microphysics scheme used. One-moment schemes produce too many small raindrops, which biases Doppler velocities low, but produces rainwater contents (RWCs) that are similar to observed. Two-moment rain schemes with a gamma shape parameter (mu) of 0 produce excessive size sorting, which leads to larger Doppler velocities than those produced in one-moment schemes but lower RWCs. Two-moment schemes also produce a convective median volume diameter distribution that is too broad relative to observations and, thus, may have issues balancing raindrop formation, collision-coalescence, and raindrop breakup. Assuming a mu of 2.5 rather than 0 for the raindrop size distribution improves one-moment scheme biases, and allowing mu to have values greater than 0 may improve excessive size sorting in two-moment schemes. Underpredicted stratiform rain rates are associated with underpredicted ice water contents at the melting level rather than excessive rain evaporation, in turn likely associated with convective detrainment that is too high in the troposphere and mesoscale circulations that are too weak. A limited domain size also prevents a large, well-developed stratiform region like the one observed from developing in CRMs, although LAMs also fail to produce such a region.
Cloud radar Doppler velocity spectra, lidar backscattering coefficients and depolarization ratios, and aircraft in situ measurements are used to investigate microphysical processes occurring in a case of multilayered, mixed-phase clouds over the North Slope of Alaska. Some liquid-cloud layers were observed to exist in well-mixed atmospheric layers, but others were found in absolutely stable atmospheric layers. The observations suggest that strong cloud top cooling was necessary to produce the well-mixed cloud layers; clouds shielded from radiative cooling by overlaying clouds more frequently existed in absolutely stable layers. The in situ measurements revealed that most liquid layers contained drizzle, the production process of which was shown from the radar and lidar measurements to have been interrupted only during heavier ice-precipitation events. Different layers interacted with one another by changing the radiative heating profile and by precipitation which changed the growth paths available to cloud particles and even initiated new hydrometeor classes.
The Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment campaign centered on Darwin (12 degrees S, 131 degrees E) in northern Australia in January-February 2006 provided an opportunity to study gravity wave generation by convection and the associated wave propagation and momentum transport. In this study, we discuss wave generation by a single mesoscale convective system (MCS) that occurred on 23 January. The project used a variety of radars to study the spatial and temporal variability of rainfall and the associated latent heat release during the storm. A high-resolution numerical model utilized the latent heat release derived from radar rainfall measurements to compute the spatial and geographic variation of gravity wave generation and propagation into the lower stratosphere. Gravity wave ray-tracing techniques were then used to estimate the wave energy flux penetrating to heights near 90 km, where the results were compared with direct measurements made with a meteor wind radar. This comparison is used to calibrate the momentum fluxes derived from the model and the ray-tracing results using an iterative technique. The momentum was deposited in a relatively compact region. Body forces computed from the flux divergences had their maximum values at heights near 98 km with a peak values of about 400 m s(-1)h(-1). The effects of secondary gravity wave generation are discussed, as is the overall contribution of gravity waves generated by MCSs to the momentum budget of the tropical middle atmosphere.
Sun photometric measurements are an important method of measuring the column amount and optical properties of atmospheric aerosols and are frequently used to better understand the impact of aerosols on the Earth's radiative budget. This paper assesses two calibration techniques used for multifilter rotating shadowband radiometers (MFRSRs) and presents the results obtained at Long Island, NY, during the July 2011 Aerosol Life Cycle Intensive Operational Period (IOP) campaign. The instrument calibration constants are validated internally against each other and against an independent quantitative technique based on the solar irradiance at the top of the atmosphere, convolved with the MFRSR filter response. In addition, the aerosol optical parameters obtained from the MFRSR are assessed against the same parameters retrieved with a recently calibrated CIMEL sun/sky radiometer collocated with the MFRSR instrument. These comparisons indicate generally good agreement between the two instruments for both calibration techniques. The advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques are presented. Additionally, an analysis of the optical and physical properties of aerosols from the MFRSR and their chemical compositions obtained by an in situ high-resolution time-of-flight aerosol mass spectrometer, together with back trajectories, indicate that the principal source of high concentrations of fine aerosols observed during July 18-24 was forest fires in western Canada.
Observation-based modeling case studies of continental boundary layer clouds have been developed to study cloudy boundary layers, aerosol influences upon them, and their representation in cloud- and global-scale models. Three 60 h case study periods span the temporal evolution of cumulus, stratiform, and drizzling boundary layer cloud systems, representing mixed and transitional states rather than idealized or canonical cases. Based on in situ measurements from the Routine AAF (Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Aerial Facility) CLOWD (Clouds with Low Optical Water Depth) Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign and remote sensing observations, the cases are designed with a modular configuration to simplify use in large-eddy simulations (LES) and single-column models. Aircraft measurements of aerosol number size distribution are fit to lognormal functions for concise representation in models. Values of the aerosol hygroscopicity parameter, , are derived from observations to be similar to 0.10, which are lower than the 0.3 typical over continents and suggestive of a large aerosol organic fraction. Ensemble large-scale forcing data sets are derived from the ARM variational analysis, European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, and a multiscale data assimilation system. The forcings are assessed through comparison of measured bulk atmospheric and cloud properties to those computed in trial large-eddy simulations, where more efficient run times are enabled through modest reductions in grid resolution and domain size compared to the full-sized LES grid. Simulations capture many of the general features observed, but the state-of-the-art forcings were limited at representing details of cloud onset, and tight gradients and high-resolution transients of importance. Methods for improving the initial conditions and forcings are discussed. The cases developed are available to the general modeling community for studying continental boundary clouds.
While fractional entrainment rates for cumulus clouds have typically been derived from airborne observations, this limits the size and scope of available datasets. To increase the number of continental cumulus entrainment rate observations available for study, an algorithm for retrieving them from ground-based remote sensing observations has been developed. This algorithm, called the Entrainment Rate In Cumulus Algorithm (ERICA), uses the suite of instruments at the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site of the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Climate Research Facility as inputs into a Gauss-Newton optimal estimation scheme, in which an assumed guess of the entrainment rate is iteratively adjusted through intercomparison of modeled cloud attributes to their observed counterparts. The forward model in this algorithm is the explicit mixing parcel model (EMPM), a cloud parcel model that treats entrainment as a series of discrete entrainment events. A quantified value for the uncertainty in the retrieved entrainment rate is also returned as part of the retrieval. Sensitivity testing and information content analysis demonstrate the robust nature of this method for retrieving accurate observations of the entrainment rate without the drawbacks of airborne sampling. Results from a test of ERICA on 3 months of shallow cumulus cloud events show significant variability of the entrainment rate of clouds in a single day and from one day to the next. The mean value of 1.06 km(-1) for the entrainment rate in this dataset corresponds well with prior observations and simulations of the entrainment rate in cumulus clouds.
Boundary-layer height (BLH) under clear, altostratus and low stratus cloud conditions were measured by GPS sounding, wind profiler radar, and micro-pulse lidar during the atmospheric radiation measurement experiment from Sep. to Dec. 2008 in Shouxian, Anhui, China. Results showed that during daytime or nighttime, regardless of cloud conditions, the GPS sounding was the most accurate method for measuring BLH. Unfortunately, because of the long time gap between launchings, sounding data did not capture the diurnal evolution of the BLH. Thus, wind profile radar emerged as a promising instrument for direct and continuous measurement of the mixing height during the daytime, accurately determining BLH using the structure parameter of the electromagnetic refractive index. However, during nighttime, radar was limited by weak signal extraction and did not work well for determining the BLH of the stable boundary layer, often recording the BLH of the residual layer. While micro-pulse lidar recorded the evolution of BLH, it overestimated the BLH of the stable boundary layer. This method also failed to work under cloudy conditions because of the influence of water vapor. Future work needs to develop a method to determine BLH that combines the complimentary features of all three algorithms. 2015 Chinese Society of Particuology and Institute of Process Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Land surface albedo (LSA) is an important component of the surface radiation budget. For calculation of the surface shortwave net radiation budget, temporal mean albedo is more important than instantaneous albedo. Although Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) albedo products have been extensively validated, little effort has been made to evaluate the accuracy of daily mean albedo from MODIS. In this study, we calculate daily mean albedo from MODIS data using a direct method and a look-up table (LUT) method. Comparison with in situ albedo measured at 27 field stations shows that both methods can estimate daily mean albedo with high accuracy. The root-mean-square error (RMSE) of snow-free daily mean albedo retrieved by the LUT method and the direct method is 0.033 and 0.034, respectively. Over the 12 spatially representative stations, RMSE of daily mean albedo is 0.022 and 0.023 by the LUT and direct approach, respectively. Simply using the local noon albedo value as a surrogate of daily mean albedo leads to overestimation of daily shortwave net radiation. By using the data of daily mean albedo, the bias in estimating daily shortwave net radiation can be reduced by 2.8W/m2 with the direct method and 2.6W/m2 with the LUT method, compared to the use of local noon albedo.
Six deep convective systems (DCSs) with a total of 5589 five-second samples and a range of temperatures from -41 degrees C to 0 degrees C during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) were selected to investigate the ice cloud microphysical properties of DCSs over the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. The ice cloud measurements of the DCS cases were made by the University of North Dakota Citation II research aircraft, and the ice cloud properties were derived through the following processes. First, the instances of supercooled liquid water in the ice-dominated cloud layers of DCSs have been eliminated using multisensor detection, including the Rosemount Icing Detector, King and Cloud Droplet Probes, as well as 2DC and Cloud Imaging Probe images. Then the Nevzorov-measured ice water contents (IWCs) at maximum diameter D-max<4000 mu m are used as the best estimation to determine a new mass-dimensional relationship. Finally, the newly derived mass-dimensional relationship (a=0.00365, b=2.1) has been applied to a full spectrum of particle size distributions (PSDs, 120-30,000 mu m) constructed from both 2DC and High-Volume Precipitation Spectrometer measurements to calculate the best-estimated IWCs of DCSs during MC3E. The averages of the total number concentrations (N-t), median mass diameter (D-m), maximum diameter (D-max), and IWC from six selected cases are 0.035cm(-3), 1666 mu m, 8841 mu m, and 0.45gm(-3), respectively. The gamma-type-size distributions are then generated matching the observed PSDs (120-30,000 mu m), and the fitted gamma parameters are compared with the observed PSDs through multimoment assessments including first moment (D-m), third moment (IWC), and sixth moment (equivalent radar reflectivity, Z(e)). For application of observed PSDs to the remote sensing community, a series of empirical relationships between fitted parameters and Z(e) values has been derived, and the bullet rosette ice crystal backscattering relationship has been suggested for ground-based remote sensing.
Using multiple observational and model datasets, the authors document a strengthening relationship between boreal winter sea surface temperature anomalies (SSTAs) in the western North Pacific (WNP) and the development of the El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) in the following year. The increased WNP-ENSO association emerged in the mid-twentieth century and has grown through the present, reaching correlation coefficients as high as ~0.70 in recent decades. Fully coupled climate experiments with the Community Earth System Model, version 1 (CESM1), replicate the WNP-ENSO association and indicate that greenhouse gases (GHGs) are largely responsible for this observed increase. The authors speculate that shifts in the location of the largest positive SST trends between the subtropical and tropical western Pacific impact the low-level circulation in a manner that reinforces the link between the WNP and the development of ENSO. A strengthened GHG-driven relationship with the WNP provides an example of how anthropogenic climate change may directly influence one of the most prominent patterns of natural climate variability, ENSO, and potentially improve the skill of intraseasonal-to-interannual climate prediction.
In this study, we investigated the impacts of the triggering function of the deep convection scheme on diurnal rainfall variation in the middle latitudes by using the single-column version of the Community Atmospheric Model (SCAM). Using the climate statistics of a long-term ensemble analysis of SCAM simulations, we quantified and validated the diurnal rainfall climatological regimes at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. The results showed that the averaged diurnal rainfall cycle simulated using the default Zhang-Mcfarlane (ZM) scheme of the SCAM peaks near noon, which is far earlier than the observed nighttime peak phase. This bias was due to the ZM scheme, which produced spurious daytime rainfall, even during days in which only light rainfall was observed. By contrast, using a weather-focused scheme, the Simplified Arakawa-Schubert (SAS) scheme, we successfully simulated the nocturnal peak of the diurnal cycle. Experiments conducted on the ZM and SAS schemes featuring different triggering functions revealed that the relaxation of launching parcels above the planetary boundary layer (PBL) and the inclusion of convective inhibition (CIN) were crucial designs for the model to capture the nocturnal rainfall events of the SGP. The inclusion of CIN reduces spurious weak convective events, and the allowance of launching parcels being above the PBL better captures convective cloud base. The results of this study highlight the modulatory effect of low-level inhomogeneity on the diurnal variation of convection over midlatitudes and the importance of the triggering function of the deep convection scheme in capturing those variations.
Boundary layer convection (BLC) is common over high-latitude oceans and adjacent coastal regions when a cold airmass becomes exposed to a sufficient fetch of open water. The vertical structure of mixed-phase BLC clouds and precipitation is examined using the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program data set collected at the North Slope of Alaska (NSA) site at Barrow, Alaska. BLC may occur at this location in autumn, when cold air masses originating at higher latitudes advect southward over the still ice-free coastal waters north of Alaska. This study identifies such BLC and documents its occurrence and characteristics. Instruments used for this study include profiling Ka band radars, a depolarization backscatter profiling lidar, a scanning X band radar, a microwave radiometer, a ceilometer, surface meteorological probes, and radiosondes. Six criteria are applied to objectively identify the BLC events, using data collected between 2004 and 2013. BLC episodes are relatively common at the NSA site, but almost exclusively in the month of October, and most episodes are relatively short, less than 10h in duration. Liquid water is commonly found in these mixed-phase BLC clouds, with a typical liquid water path of 150g/m(2), and snowfall rates average similar to 3mmh(-1) (water equivalent), in some cases over 10mmh(-1), notwithstanding the low cloud echo tops (similar to 1.0-1.5km). In one rather weak but persistent episode fall speed estimates derived from the profiling Ka band radar indicates the presence of rimed particles, confirming the convective nature of this precipitation.
Atmospheric transfer correction is important to the measurement of target' s radiation characteristic. Following the former paper, an atmospheric transfer correction system and the moderate-spectral-resolution combined atmospheric radiative transfer (CART) code were introduced. The comparisons of atmospheric correction and horizontal measurement results were presented. The precision of the atmospheric correction system on middle and long wavelength infrared was evaluated.
This study compares 1997-2011 observationally based cloud fraction estimates from six different platforms (three ground-based estimates and three satellite-based estimates) over the Southern Great Plains, United States. The comparisons are performed at multiple temporal and spatial scales. The results show that 1997-2011 mean cloud fractions from the Active Remote Sensing of CLouds (ARSCL) and from the International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project (ISCCP) are significantly (at a 2% significance level, two-sided t test) larger than the others, having 0.08 and 0.15 larger mean diurnal variations, 0.08 and 0.13 larger mean annual variations, and 0.08 and 0.14 larger interannual variations, respectively. Although more high (low) clouds are likely a reason for larger ARSCL (ISCCP) cloud fractions, other mechanisms cannot be ruled out and require further investigations. Furthermore, half of the estimates exhibit a significant (at a 1% significance level, one-sided t test) overall increase of 0.08-0.10 in the annually averaged cloud fractions from 1998 to 2009; another half of the estimates exhibit little tendency of increase in this decade. Monthly cloud fractions from all the estimates exhibit quasi-Gaussian frequency distributions while the distributions of daily cloud fractions are found dependent on spatial scales. Cloud fractions from all the estimates show much larger seasonal variations than diurnal variations. Findings from this study suggest caution when using observationally based cloud fraction estimates for climate studies such as evaluating model performance and reinforce the need of consistency in defining and retrieving cloud fractions.
Previous observational studies have identified three different types of diurnal precipitation variation over the conterminous U.S.: localized afternoon rainfall maxima over the Mississippi and Ohio valleys, propagating mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) from the Rocky Mountain region, and propagating MCSs over the Appalachian Mountains. This study focuses on the second type, which involves nocturnal rainfall maxima from eastward-propagating MCSs on the lee side of the Rocky Mountains. This study evaluates model simulations with regard to rainfall using observations and assesses the impact of microphysics, surface fluxes, radiation, and terrain on the simulated diurnal rainfall variation. A regional high-resolution model was used to conduct a series of real-time forecasts during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) in 2011 over the Southern Great Plains. The model ably captured most heavy precipitation events. When all forecast days are composited, the mean forecast depicts accurate, propagating precipitation features and thus the overall diurnal variation. However, individual forecasts tend to overestimate the rainfall for light precipitation events, have location errors, and misrepresent convection in some cases. A post mission case study is performed on one multi-cell, eastward-propagating MCS event; the results suggest that cold-pool dynamics were an important physical process. Model results also indicate that terrain effects are important during the initial stages of MCS development. By increasing the terrain height by 10%, the simulated rainfall is increased and in better agreement with observations. On the other hand, surface fluxes, and radiation processes only have a secondary effect for short-term simulations.
Carbonyl sulfide (COS) is a reduced sulfur gas that is taken up irreversibly in plant leaves proportionally with CO2, allowing its potential use as a tracer for gross primary production. Recently, wheat field soil at the Southern Great Plains Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site in Lamont, Oklahoma, was found to be a measureable source of COS to the atmosphere. To understand the mechanism of COS production, soil and root samples were collected from the site and incubated in the laboratory over a range of temperatures (15-34 degrees C) and light conditions (light and dark). Samples exhibited mostly COS net uptake from the atmosphere in dark and cool (<22-25 degrees C) trials. COS emission was observed during dark incubations at high temperatures (>25 degrees C), consistent with field observations, and at a lower temperature (19 degrees C) when a full spectrum lamp (max wavelength 600 nm) was applied. Sterilized soil and root samples yielded only COS production that increased with temperature, supporting the hypothesis that (a) COS production in these samples is abiotic, (b) production is directly influenced by temperature and light, and (c) some COS consumption in soil and root samples is biotic.
During strong El Nino events, sea level drops around some tropical western Pacific islands by up to 20-30 cm. Such events (referred to as taimasa in Samoa) expose shallow reefs, thereby causing severe damage to associated coral ecosystems and contributing to the formation of microatolls. During the termination of strong El Nino events, a southward movement of weak trade winds and the development of an anomalous anticyclone in the Philippine Sea are shown to force an interhemispheric sea level seesaw in the tropical Pacific that enhances and prolongs extreme low sea levels in the southwestern Pacific. Spectral features, in addition to wind-forced linear shallow water ocean model experiments, identify a nonlinear interaction between El Nino and the annual cycle as the main cause of these sea level anomalies. 2014 American Meteorological Society.
This study consists of two parts. The first part describes the way in which vertical air motions and raindrop size distributions (DSDs) were retrieved from 449-MHz and 2.835-GHz (UHF and S band) vertically pointing radars (VPRs) deployed side by side during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) held in northern Oklahoma. The 449-MHz VPR can measure both vertical air motion and raindrop motion. The S-band VPR can measure only raindrop motion. These differences in VPR sensitivities facilitates the identification of two peaks in 449-MHz VPR reflectivity-weighted Doppler velocity spectra and the retrieval of vertical air motion and DSD parameters from near the surface to just below the melting layer. The second part of this study used the retrieved DSD parameters to decompose reflectivity and liquid water content (LWC) into two terms, one representing number concentration and the other representing DSD shape. Reflectivity and LWC vertical decomposition diagrams (Z-VDDs and LWC-VDDs, respectively) are introduced to highlight interactions between raindrop number and DSD shape in the vertical column. Analysis of Z-VDDs provides indirect measure of microphysical processes through radar reflectivity. Analysis of LWC-VDDs provides direct investigation of microphysical processes in the vertical column, including net raindrop evaporation or accretion and net raindrop breakup or coalescence. During a stratiform rain event (20 May 2011), LWC-VDDs exhibited signatures of net evaporation and net raindrop coalescence as the raindrops fell a distance of 2 km under a well-defined radar bright band. The LWC-VDD is a tool to characterize rain microphysics with quantities related to number-controlled and size-controlled processes.
Recent advances in atmospheric transport model inversions could significantly reduce uncertainties in land carbon uptake through the assimilation of CO2 concentration measurements at weekly and shorter timescales. The potential of these measurements for reducing biases in estimated land carbon sinks depends on the strength of covariation between surface fluxes and atmospheric transport at these timescales and how well transport models represent this covariation. Daily to seasonal covariation of surface fluxes and atmospheric transport was estimated in observations at the US Southern Great Plains Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Climate Research Facility, and compared to an atmospheric transport model inversion (CarbonTracker). Covariation of transport and surface fluxes was stronger in CarbonTracker than in observations on synoptic (daily to weekly) timescales, with a wet year (2007) having significant covariation compared to a dry year (2006). Differences between observed and CarbonTracker synoptic covariation resulted in a 0.3 ppm CO2 enhancement in boundary layer concentrations during the growing season, and a corresponding enhancement in carbon uptake by 13% of the seasonal cycle amplitude in 2007, as estimated by an offline simplified transport model. This synoptic rectification of surface flux variability was of similar magnitude to the interannual variability in carbon sinks alone, and indicates that interannual variability in the inversions can be affected by biases in simulated synoptic rectifier effects. The most significant covariation of surface fluxes and transport had periodicities of 10 days and greater, suggesting that surface flux inversions would benefit from improved simulations of the effects of soil moisture on boundary layer heights and surface CO2 fluxes. Soil moisture remote sensing could be used along with CO2 concentration measurements to further constrain atmospheric transport model inversions.
We provide observational evidence that land-atmosphere coupling is underestimated by a conventional metric defined by the correlation between soil moisture and surface evaporative fraction (latent heat flux normalized by the sum of sensible and latent heat flux). Land-atmosphere coupling is 3 times stronger when using leaf area index as a correlate of evaporative fraction instead of soil moisture, in the Southern Great Plains. The role of vegetation was confirmed using adjacent flux measurement sites having identical atmospheric forcing but different vegetation phenology. Transpiration makes the relationship between evaporative fraction and soil moisture nonlinear and gives the appearance of weak coupling when using linear soil moisture metrics. Regions of substantial coupling extend to semiarid and humid continental climates across the United States, in terms of correlations between vegetation metrics and evaporative fraction. The hydrological cycle is more tightly constrained by the land surface than previously inferred from soil moisture. 2015. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
This is a hardcoded string to represent the absent abstract
In this study, we retrieve and document drizzle properties, and investigate the impact of drizzle on cloud property retrieval in Dong et al. (2014a) from ground-based measurements at the ARM Azores facility from June 2009 to December 2010. For the selected cloud and drizzle samples, the drizzle occurrence is 42.6 %, with a maximum of 55.8% in winter and a minimum of 35.6% in summer. The annual means of drizzle liquid water path LWPd, effective radius r(d), and number concentration N-d for the rain (virga) samples are 4.73 (1.25) gm(-2), 61.5 (36.4) mu m, and 0.38 (0.79) cm(-3). The seasonal mean LWPd values are less than 3% of the LWP values retrieved by the microwave radiometer (MWR). The annual mean differences in cloud-droplet effective radius with and without drizzle are 0.75 and 2.35 %, respectively, for the virga and rain samples. Therefore, we conclude that the impact of drizzle below the cloud base on cloud property retrieval is insignificant for a solar-transmission-based method, but significant for any retrievals using radar reflectivity.
This is a hardcoded string to represent the absent abstract
This study compares 1997-2011 observationally based cloud fraction estimates from six different platforms (three ground-based estimates and three satellite-based estimates) over the Southern Great Plains, United States. The comparisons are performed at multiple temporal and spatial scales. The results show that 1997-2011 mean cloud fractions from the Active Remote Sensing of CLouds (ARSCL) and from the International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project (ISCCP) are significantly (at a 2% significance level, two-sided t test) larger than the others, having 0.08 and 0.15 larger mean diurnal variations, 0.08 and 0.13 larger mean annual variations, and 0.08 and 0.14 larger interannual variations, respectively. Although more high (low) clouds are likely a reason for larger ARSCL (ISCCP) cloud fractions, other mechanisms cannot be ruled out and require further investigations. Furthermore, half of the estimates exhibit a significant (at a 1% significance level, one-sided t test) overall increase of 0.08-0.10 in the annually averaged cloud fractions from 1998 to 2009; another half of the estimates exhibit little tendency of increase in this decade. Monthly cloud fractions from all the estimates exhibit quasi-Gaussian frequency distributions while the distributions of daily cloud fractions are found dependent on spatial scales. Cloud fractions from all the estimates show much larger seasonal variations than diurnal variations. Findings from this study suggest caution when using observationally based cloud fraction estimates for climate studies such as evaluating model performance and reinforce the need of consistency in defining and retrieving cloud fractions.
Marine boundary layer (MBL) cloud properties derived from the NASA Clouds and the Earth's Radiant Energy System (CERES) project using Terra and Aqua Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data are compared with observations taken at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Mobile Facility at the Azores (AMF-Azores) site from June 2009 through December 2010. Cloud properties derived from ARM ground-based observations were averaged over a 1 h interval centered at the satellite overpass time, while the CERES-MODIS (CM) results were averaged within a 30 km x 30 km grid box centered over the Azores site. A total of 63 daytime and 92 nighttime single-layered overcast MBL cloud cases were selected from 19 months of ARM radar-lidar and satellite observations. The CM cloud top/base heights (H-top/H-base) were determined from cloud top/base temperatures (T-top/T-base) using a regional boundary layer lapse rate method. For daytime comparisons, the CM-derived H-top (H-base), on average, is 0.063 km (0.068 km) higher (lower) than its ARM radar-lidar-observed counterpart, and the CM-derived T-top and T-base are 0.9 K less and 2.5 K greater than the surface values with high correlations (R-2 = 0.82 and 0.84, respectively). In general, the cloud top comparisons agree better than the cloud base comparisons, because the CM cloud base temperatures and heights are secondary products determined from cloud top temperatures and heights. No significant day-night difference was found in the analyses. The comparisons of MBL cloud microphysical properties reveal that when averaged over a 30 km x 30 km area, the CM-retrieved cloud droplet effective radius (r(e)) at 3.7 mu m is 1.3 mu m larger than that from the ARM retrievals (12.8 mu m), while the CM-retrieved cloud liquid water path (LWP) is 13.5 gm(-2) less than its ARM counterpart (114.2 gm(-2)) due to its small optical depth (9.6 versus 13.7). The differences are reduced by 50% when the CM averages are computed only using the MODIS pixel nearest the AMF site. Using the effective radius retrieved using 2.1 mu m channel to calculate LWP can reduce the difference between the CM and ARM microwave radiometer retrievals from -13.7 to 2.1 gm(-2). The 10% differences between the ARM and CERES-MODIS LWP and r(e) retrievals are within the uncertainties of the ARM LWP (similar to 20 gm(-2)) and r(e) (similar to 10%) retrievals; however, the 30% difference in optical depth is significant. Possible reasons contributing to this discrepancy are increased sensitivities in optical depth from both surface retrievals when tau similar to 10 and topography. The tau differences vary with wind direction and are consistent with the island orography. Much better agreement in tau is obtained when using only those data taken when the wind is from the northeast, where topographical effects on the sampled clouds are minimal.
The North American Land Data Assimilation System project phase 2 (NLDAS-2) has run four land surface models for a 30-year (1979-2008) retrospective period. Land surface evapotranspiration (ET) is one of the most important model outputs from NLDAS-2 for investigating land-atmosphere interaction or to monitor agricultural drought. Here, we evaluate hourly ET using in situ observations over the Southern Great Plains (Atmospheric Radiation Measurement/Cloud and Radiation Testbed network) for 1 January 1997-30 September 1999 and daily ET u-sing in situ observations at the AmeriFlux network over the conterminous USA for an 8-year period (2000-2007). The NLDAS-2 models compare well against observations, with the National Centers for Environmental Prediction's Noah land surface model performing best, followed, in order, by the Variable Infiltration Capacity, Sacramento Soil Moisture Accounting, and Mosaic models. Daily evaluation across the AmeriFlux network shows that for all models, performance depends on season and vegetation type; they do better in spring and fall than in winter or summer and better for deciduous broadleaf forest and grasslands than for croplands or evergreen needleleaf forest. 2014 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.
The North American Land Data Assimilation System project phase 2 (NLDAS-2) has run four land surface models for a 30-year (1979-2008) retrospective period. Land surface evapotranspiration (ET) is one of the most important model outputs from NLDAS-2 for investigating land-atmosphere interaction or to monitor agricultural drought. Here, we evaluate hourly ET using in situ observations over the Southern Great Plains (Atmospheric Radiation Measurement/Cloud and Radiation Testbed network) for 1 January 1997-30 September 1999 and daily ET u-sing in situ observations at the AmeriFlux network over the conterminous USA for an 8-year period (2000-2007). The NLDAS-2 models compare well against observations, with the National Centers for Environmental Prediction's Noah land surface model performing best, followed, in order, by the Variable Infiltration Capacity, Sacramento Soil Moisture Accounting, and Mosaic models. Daily evaluation across the AmeriFlux network shows that for all models, performance depends on season and vegetation type; they do better in spring and fall than in winter or summer and better for deciduous broadleaf forest and grasslands than for croplands or evergreen needleleaf forest. 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Sensitivity of Arctic clouds and radiation in the Community Atmospheric Model, version 5, to the ice nucleation process is examined by testing a new physically based ice nucleation scheme that links the variation of ice nuclei (IN) number concentration to aerosol properties. The default scheme parameterizes the IN concentration simply as a function of ice supersaturation. The new scheme leads to a significant reduction in simulated IN concentration at all latitudes while changes in cloud amounts and properties are mainly seen at high- and midlatitude storm tracks. In the Arctic, there is a considerable increase in midlevel clouds and a decrease in low-level clouds, which result from the complex interaction among the cloud macrophysics, microphysics, and large-scale environment. The smaller IN concentrations result in an increase in liquid water path and a decrease in ice water path caused by the slowdown of the Bergeron-Findeisen process in mixed-phase clouds. Overall, there is an increase in the optical depth of Arctic clouds, which leads to a stronger cloud radiative forcing (net cooling) at the top of the atmosphere. The comparison with satellite data shows that the new scheme slightly improves low-level cloud simulations over most of the Arctic but produces too many midlevel clouds. Considerable improvements are seen in the simulated low-level clouds and their properties when compared with Arctic ground-based measurements. Issues with the observations and the model-observation comparison in the Arctic region are discussed.
This study attempts to understand interactions between midlatitude convective systems and their environments through a heat and moisture budget analysis using the sounding data collected from the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) in central Oklahoma. Distinct large-scale structures and diabatic heating and drying profiles are presented for cases of weaker and elevated thunderstorms as well as intense squall line and supercell thunderstorm events during the campaign. The elevated cell events were nocturnal convective systems occurring in an environment having low convective available potential energy (CAPE) and a very dry boundary layer. In contrast, deeper convective events happened during the morning into early afternoon within an environment associated with large CAPE and a near-saturated boundary layer. As the systems reached maturity, the diagnosed diabatic heating in the latter deep convective cases was much stronger and of greater vertical extent than the former. Both groups showed considerable diabatic cooling in the lower troposphere, associated with the evaporation of precipitation and low-level clouds. The horizontal advection of moisture also played a dominant role in moistening the lower troposphere, particularly for the deeper convective events, wherein the near surface southeasterly flow allows persistent low-level moisture return from the Gulf of Mexico to support convection. The moisture convergence often was present before these systems develop, suggesting a strong correlation between the large-scale moisture convergence and convection. Sensitivity tests indicated that the uncertainty in the surface precipitation and the size of analysis domain mainly affected the magnitude of these analyzed fields rather than their vertical structures.
Using long-term radar-based ground measurements from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, we derive the inhomogeneity of cloud liquid water as represented by the shape parameter of a gamma distribution. The relationship between the inhomogeneity and the model grid size as well as atmospheric condition is presented. A larger grid scale and more unstable atmosphere are associated with larger inhomogeneity that is described by a smaller shape parameter. This relationship is implemented as a scale-aware parameterization of the liquid cloud inhomogeneity in the Community Earth System Model (CESM) in which the shape parameter impacts the cloud microphysical processes. When used in the default CESM1 with the finite-volume dynamic core where a constant liquid inhomogeneity parameter was assumed, it reduces the cloud inhomogeneity in high latitudes and increases it in low latitudes. This is due to both the smaller (larger) grid size in high (low) latitudes in the longitude-latitude grid setting of CESM and the more stable (unstable) atmosphere. The single-column model and general circulation model sensitivity experiments show that the new parameterization increases the cloud liquid water path in polar regions and decreases it in low latitudes. An advantage of the parameterization is that it can recognize the spatial resolutions of the CESM without special tuning of the cloud water inhomogeneity parameter.
Surface-based measurements of shortwave (SW) radiative fluxes contain valuable information on cloud properties, but have not been fully used to infer those properties. Here a new analytical approach is presented that simultaneously infers cloud albedo and cloud fraction from surface-based measurements of total and direct radiative fluxes. An inspection of the analytical formulation reveals that cloud fraction is primarily determined by the relative cloud radiative forcing for the direct radiation, defined as the difference between the clear-sky and all-sky direct downwelling radiative fluxes normalized by the clear-sky direct downwelling radiative fluxes, while cloud albedo is primarily determined by the ratio of the relative cloud radiative forcing for the total downwelling radiation to the relative cloud radiative forcing for the direct radiation. The new analytical approach is validated using synthetic measurements generated by the rapid radiative transfer model (RRTM) algorithm with known cloud inputs and some surface-and satellite-based measurements. The effect of cloud absorption is further corrected based on a suite of numerical experiments. The new approach demonstrates the utility of partitioning total radiation into direct and diffuse radiation, and eliminates the potential contamination of errors in existing approaches that retrieve cloud fraction and cloud albedo separately.
Ground-based radiation measurements have been widely conducted to gain information on clouds and the surface radiation budget. To examine the existing techniques of cloud property retrieval and explore the underlying reasons for uncertainties, a newly developed approach that allows for simultaneous retrievals of cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements, XL2013, is used to derive cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site. The new results are compared with the separate retrieval of cloud fraction and cloud albedo using Long2006 and Liu2011, respectively. The retrievals from the broadband radiation measurements are further compared with those based on shortwave spectral measurements (Min2008). The comparison shows overall good agreement between the retrievals of both cloud fraction and cloud albedo, with noted differences, however. The Long2006 and Min2008 cloud fractions are greater on average than the XL2013 values. Compared to Min2008 and Liu2011, the XL2013 cloud albedo tends to be greater for thin clouds but smaller for thick clouds, with the differences decreasing with increasing cloud fraction; the neglect of land surface albedo and cloud absorption by Liu2011 also contributes the difference in cloud albedo. Further analysis reveals that the approaches that retrieve cloud fraction and cloud albedo separately may suffer from mutual contamination of errors in retrieved cloud fraction and cloud albedo.
Two field campaigns, the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) and the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE), took place in 2006 near Niamey, Niger, and Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia, providing extensive observations of mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) near a desert and a tropical coast, respectively. Under the constraint of their observations, three-dimensional cloud-resolving model simulations are carried out and presented in this paper to replicate the basic characteristics of the observed MCSs. All of the modeled MCSs exhibit a distinct structure having deep convective clouds accompanied by stratiform and anvil clouds. In contrast to the approximately 100-km-scale MCSs observed in TWP-ICE, the MCSs in AMMA have been successfully simulated with a scale of about 400 km. These modeled AMMA and TWP-ICE MCSs offer an opportunity to understand the structure and mechanism of MCSs. Comparing the water budgets between AMMA and TWP-ICE MCSs suggests that TWP-ICE convective clouds have stronger ascent while the mesoscale ascent outside convective clouds in AMMA is stronger. A case comparison, with the aid of sensitivity experiments, also suggests that vertical wind shear and ice crystal (or dust aerosol) concentration can significantly impact stratiform and anvil clouds (e.g., their areas) in MCSs. In addition, the obtained water budgets quantitatively describe the transport of water between convective, stratiform, and anvil regions as well as water sources/sinks from microphysical processes, providing information that can be used to help determine parameters in the convective and cloud parameterizations in general circulation models (GCMs).
A method is proposed for detecting clouds from whole-sky color images obtained with an all-sky camera (ASC) system. In polar regions, cloud detection using whole-sky images usually suffers from large uncertainties in fractional cloud cover retrievals because of large solar zenith angles (SZAs) and high surface albedo, which cause "whitening" in the images. These problems are addressed by using differences between real images and virtual clear-sky images for a particular observation time with the same SZA. The method is applied to ASC images obtained at Ny-Alesund, Svalbard in May of 2005-2007, and the results are compared with Micro-Pulse Lidar (MPL) measurements. When no clouds were detected by MPL, the false cloud detection rate from ASC classification was 2.1% in total hours. Conversely, when clouds were detected by MPL, the ASC classification underestimated the clouds by 11.6%. In most cases, this occurred when MPL detected very optically thin clouds. Furthermore, the variability of cloud fractions estimated by MPL and ASC was roughly constant regardless of the SZA. Thus, it is confirmed that the method developed in this study is valid for cloud detection from whole-sky color images. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. and NIPR. All rights reserved.
Studies of global hydrologic cycles, carbon cycles and climate change are greatly facilitated when. global estimates of evapotranspiration (E) are available. We have developed an air-relative-humidity-based two-source (ARTS) E model that simulates the surface energy balance, soil water balance, and environmental constraints on E. It uses remotely sensed leaf area index (L-ai) and surface meteorological data to estimate E by: 1) introducing a simple biophysical model for canopy conductance (G(c)), defined as a constant maximum stomatal conductance g(smax) of 12.2 mm s(-1) multiplied by air relative humidity (R-h) and L-ai (G(c) = g(srnax) x R-h X L-ai); 2) calculating canopy transpiration with the G(c)-based Penman-Monteith (PM) E model; 3) calculating soil evaporation from an air-relative-humidity-based model of evapotranspiration (Yan & Shugart, 2010); 4) calculating total E (E-0) as the sum of the canopy transpiration and soil evaporation, assuming the absence of soil water stress; and 5) correcting E-0 for soil water stress using a soil water balance model. This physiological ARTS E model requires no calibration. Evaluation against eddy covariance measurements at 19 flux sites, representing a wide variety of climate and vegetation types, indicates that daily estimated E had a root mean square error = 0.77 mm d(-1). bias = -0.14 mm d(-1), and coefficient of determination, R-2 = 0.69. Global, monthly, 0.5 degrees-gridded ARTS E simulations from 1984 to 1998, which were forced using Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer Lai data, Climate Research Unit climate data, and surface radiation budget data, predicted a mean annual land E of 58.4 x 10(3) km(3). This falls within the range (58 x 10(3)-85 x 10(3) km(3)) estimated by the Second Global Soil Wetness Project (GSWP-2: Dirmeyer et al., 2006). The ARTS E spatial pattern agrees well with that of the global E estimated by GSWP-2. The global annual ARTS E increased by 15.5 mm per decade from 1984 to 1998, comparable to an increase of 9.9 mm per decade from the model tree ensemble approach (Jung et al., 2010). These comparisons confirm the effectivity of the ARTS E model to simulate the spatial. pattern and climate response of global E. This model is the first of its kind among remote-sensing-based PM E models to provide global land E estimation with consideration of the soil water balance. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This is a hardcoded string to represent the absent abstract
Mixed-phase stratiform clouds can persist even with steady ice precipitation fluxes, and the origin and microphysical properties of the ice crystals are of interest. Vapor deposition growth and sedimentation of ice particles along with a uniform volume source of ice nucleation lead to a power law relation between ice water content wi and ice number concentration ni with exponent 2.5. The result is independent of assumptions about the vertical velocity structure of the cloud and is therefore more general than the related expression of Yang et al. (2013). The sensitivity of the wi-ni relationship to the spatial distribution of ice nucleation is confirmed by Lagrangian tracking and ice growth with cloud volume, cloud top, and cloud base sources of ice particles through a time-dependent cloud field. Based on observed wi and ni from Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign, a lower bound of 0.006 m-3 s-1 is obtained for the ice crystal formation rate. 2014. American Geophysical Union.
The question of whether persistent ice crystal precipitation from supercooled layer clouds can be explained by time-dependent, stochastic ice nucleation is explored using an approximate, analytical model and a large-eddy simulation (LES) cloud model. The updraft velocity in the cloud defines an accumulation zone, where small ice particles cannot fall out until they are large enough, which will increase the residence time of ice particles in the cloud. Ice particles reach a quasi-steady state between growth by vapor deposition and fall speed at cloud base. The analytical model predicts that ice water content (wi) has a 2.5 power-law relationship with ice number concentration (ni). wi and ni from a LES cloud model with stochastic ice nucleation confirm the 2.5 power-law relationship, and initial indications of the scaling law are observed in data from the Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign. The prefactor of the power law is proportional to the ice nucleation rate and therefore provides a quantitative link to observations of ice microphysical properties. Key Points: Quasi-steady ice crystal growth occurs in cloud updrafts Ice water content and ice number concentration have 2.5 power law relationship The 2.5 power law is observed in LES cloud model and ISDAC data. 2013. American Geophysical Union.
This paper uses spaceborne lidar data to study how near-cloud aerosol statistics of attenuated backscatter depend on cloud fraction. The results for a large region around the Azores show that (1) far-from-cloud aerosol statistics are dominated by samples from scenes with lower cloud fractions, while near-cloud aerosol statistics are dominated by samples from scenes with higher cloud fractions; (2) near-cloud enhancements of attenuated backscatter occur for any cloud fraction but are most pronounced for higher cloud fractions; (3) the difference in the enhancements for different cloud fractions is most significant within 5km from clouds; (4) near-cloud enhancements can be well approximated by logarithmic functions of cloud fraction and distance to clouds. These findings demonstrate that if variability in cloud fraction across the scenes used for composite aerosol statistics is not considered, a sampling artifact will affect these statistics calculated as a function of distance to clouds. For the Azores region data set examined here, this artifact occurs mostly within 5km from clouds and exaggerates the near-cloud enhancements of lidar backscatter and color ratio by about 30%. This shows that for accurate characterization of the changes in aerosol properties with distance to clouds, it is important to account for the impact of changes in cloud fraction.
Convectively generated gravity waves are an unresolved process in global models. However, parameterization of their effects is difficult because the parameterized wave spectrum must be linked to the convective source, which is itself parameterized. Here we use the NAM-SCA model (nonhydrostatic anelastic model with segmentally constant approximation), which is midway between a cloud-resolving model and convection parameterization. Unlike conventional convection parameterizations, NAM-SCA is built directly upon a nonhydrostatic anelastic model, and thus it describes dynamical processes consistently but in a "compressed" manner (i.e., with truncation via a spatiotemporal adaptive mesh) that facilitates its potential use as a parameterization. As a result, under the dynamical framework of NAM-SCA, convection generates a spectrum of gravity waves in a physically consistent manner without any additional assumptions or simplifications. The present study examines the capacity of NAM-SCA for generating gravity waves from convection under varying degree of "compression" and assesses its viability as a physically consistent convective gravity wave source parameterization. By taking the TWP-ICE (Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment) period for the case study, NAM-SCA successfully represents the convectively generated gravity waves even down to the compression rate of 0.1. Analysis in the wave number frequency space shows that the compression behaves as a weak low-pass filter in wave number, but higher-frequency components generated by dynamic adaptation partially compensate the filtering effect making the net Reynolds stress relatively insensitive to compression.
The goal of this research was to develop a technique that combined ground-based and space-based remote sensing measurements to obtain the properties necessary to calculate atmospheric flux and their associated heating and cooling rates for validating climate models. This study was conducted and validated using seasonal data from the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site in Lamont Oklahoma. Data were collected over four nonconsecutive months, representing one month for each season, during 2010 and 2011, from the ARM-SGP site and associated collocated satellites. The data collected were used to determine the properties of the atmosphere and clouds for integration into the MODerate resolution atmospheric TRANsmission (MODTRAN) model to assess the upwelling and downwelling atmospheric flux of the atmosphere. The atmospheric flux was calculated using a variety of combinations of ground-based and satellite-based data to determine a combination that reveals the best comparison with the top of the atmosphere and surface flux measurements from the Clouds and the Earth's Radiant Energy System (CERES) satellite and ARMS's Solar Infrared Radiation Stations (SIRS), respectively. After validating the flux and determining the ideal data combinations, the atmospheric heating and cooling profiles were calculated and compared with three current reanalysis model results to determine the feasibility of using this new technique for climate model validation. This comparison revealed good agreement with the models. In general, the differences were less than 0.5 K Day-1 for both the clear and cloudy sky conditions. The month of July was the exception for the longwave spectral region; however, the sources of uncertainty during this month are high, with a high frequency of multilevel cloud cases that are either not detected or not represented correctly in the datasets. The use of satellite cloud climatological data based on the complete system of polar orbiting and geostationary satellite measurements is one approach to improve the results from applying this technique for the cloudy situations. Since there are currently numerous ARM sites around the world with similar instrumentation, this technique can be expanded to validate climate model results in other regions using ARM's historical and future datasets. ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric sciences, Remote sensing. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
The long-term measurements of Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometers and other instruments at two Atmospheric Radiation Measurements Climate Research Facility sites of Manus and Nauru have been processed to develop the climatology of cloud properties in the tropical warm pool region. Due to their unique geolocations and associated large-scale circulation patterns, cloud properties at these two sites exhibit distinctive characteristics. At the Nauru site, cloud properties are statistically significantly correlated with Pacific Decadal Oscillation index; the monthly anomaly values of cloud fraction, overcast cloud occurrence and optical depth decrease with Southern Oscillation Index (SOI). At the Manus site, monthly anomaly values of cloud fraction, overcast cloud occurrence and optical depth, to some extent, are bifurcately correlated with SOI, depending on the phase of El Nino/Southern Oscillation. The correlation of SOI and the MFRSR retrieved cloud optical properties can be explained by the drifting of tropical convection center in the equatorial area. [All rights reserved Elsevier].
The long-term multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer measurements at three Atmospheric Radiation Measurements Climate Research Facility sites of Darwin, Nauru, and Manus have been processed to develop the climatology of aerosols in the tropical warm pool region at the interannual, seasonal, and diurnal temporal scales. Due to their unique geolocations and associated large-scale circulation patterns, aerosols at the Nauru site exhibit background oceanic characteristics (strongly correlated with the sea surface wind), aerosols at the Darwin site show strong influences by biomass-burning aerosols, particularly in the dry season, and aerosols at the Manus site have climatologic characteristics in between the Darwin and Nauru sites. There are no obvious trends of aerosol loading for past decades at all three sites. El Nino/Southern Oscillation has its impacts on aerosol optical depth, as well as particle size and composition, at all three sites. Madden-Julian Oscillation modulates aerosol optical depth at the Manus and Nauru sites along the equator but has no apparent impact at the Darwin site. The annual or seasonal variation of aerosols is closely linked with Indo-Australian monsoons, exhibiting wet and dry season differences. The aerosol loading is significant lower with relatively larger particles in the wet season than in the dry season. There are significant diurnal cycles in both aerosol optical depth and Angstrom exponent at the Darwin site: low values of aerosol optical depth and Angstrom exponent in the midday and the two peaks in the early morning and late afternoon. There are noticeable changes between the dry and wet seasons. The amplitude of diurnal variation during La Nina periods is greater than that during El Nino periods. However, there are no significant diurnal variations of aerosol loading at the Manus and Nauru sites.
A Thin-Cloud Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (TCRSR) was developed and deployed in a field test at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Climate Research Facility's Southern Great Plains site. The TCRSR measures the forward-scattering lobe of the direct solar beam (i.e., the solar aureole) through an optically thin cloud (optical depth 8). We applied the retrieval algorithm of Min and Duan (2005) to the TCRSR measurements of the solar aureole to derive simultaneously the cloud optical depth (COD) and cloud drop effective radius (DER), subsequently inferring the cloud liquid-water path (LWP). After careful calibration and preprocessing, our results indicate that the TCRSR is able to retrieve simultaneously these three properties for optically thin water clouds. Colocated instruments, such as the MultiFilter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR), atmospheric emitted radiance interferometer (AERI), and Microwave Radiometer (MWR), are used to evaluate our retrieval results. The relative difference between retrieved CODs from the TCRSR and those from the MFRSR is less than 5%. The distribution of retrieved LWPs from the TCRSR is similar to those from the MWR and AERI. The differences between the TCRSR-based retrieved DERs and those from the AERI are apparent in some time periods, and the uncertainties of the DER retrievals are discussed in detail in this article.
Aerosol single scattering albedo (SSA) can be retrieved from the ratio of diffuse horizontal and direct normal fluxes measured from multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer (MFRSR). In this study, the measurement channels at 415. nm and 870. nm are selected for aerosol optical depth (AOD) and Angstrom coefficient retrievals, and the measurements at 415. nm are used for aerosol SSA retrievals with the constraint of retrieved Angstrom coefficient. We extensively assessed various issues impacting on the accuracy of SSA retrieval from measurements to input parameters and assumptions. For cloud-free days with mean aerosol loading of 0.13-0.60, our sensitivity study indicated that: (1) 1% calibration uncertainty can result in 0.8-3.7% changes in retrieved SSA; (2) without considering the cosine respond correction and/or forward scattering correction will result in underestimation of 1.1-3.3% and/or 0.73% in retrieved SSA; (3) an overestimation of 0.1 in asymmetry factor can result in an underestimation of 2.54-3.4% in retrieved SSA; (4) for small aerosol loading (e.g., 0.13), the uncertainty associated with the choice of Rayleigh optical depth value can result in non-negligible change in retrieved SSA (e.g., 0.015); (5) an uncertainty of 0.05 for surface albedo can result in changes of 1.49-5.4% in retrieved SSA. We applied the retrieval algorithm to the MFRSR measurements at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM) Southern Great Plains (SGP) site. The retrieved results of AOD, Angstrom coefficient, and SSA are basically consistent with other independent measurements from co-located instruments at the site.
The long-term measurements at the Barrow and Atqasuk sites have been processed to develop the climatology of aerosol and cloud properties at interannual, seasonal, and diurnal temporal scales. At the Barrow site, the surface temperature exhibits an increasing trend in both thawed and frozen seasons over the period studied here, about one decade. Corresponding to the warming, the snow melting day arrives earlier, and the non-snow-cover duration increases. Aerosol optical depth increased during 2001-2003 and 2005-2009 and decreased during 2003-2005. The liquid water path (LWP), cloud optical depth (COD), and cloud fraction exhibit apparently decreasing trends from 2002 to 2007 and increased significantly after 2008. In the frozen season, the arctic haze and ice clouds are dominant, while in the thawed season, the oceanic biogenic aerosols and liquid water clouds or mixed-phase clouds are dominant. The cloud droplet effective radius during the thawed season is larger than that during the frozen season. The diurnal variations of aerosol and cloud-related atmospheric properties are not obvious at these two sites. During the sunshine periods, the aerosol has a cooling effect on the surface through direct aerosol radiative forcing. In the frozen season, clouds have a positive impact on the net surface radiation, and the water vapor path, LWP, and COD have good positive correlations with the surface temperature, suggesting that the cloud radiation feedback is positive. In the thawed season, clouds have a negative impact on the net surface radiation.
The long-term multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer measurements at three Atmospheric Radiation Measurements Climate Research Facility sites of Darwin, Nauru, and Manus have been processed to develop the climatology of aerosols in the tropical warm pool region at the interannual, seasonal, and diurnal temporal scales. Due to their unique geolocations and associated large-scale circulation patterns, aerosols at the Nauru site exhibit background oceanic characteristics (strongly correlated with the sea surface wind), aerosols at the Darwin site show strong influences by biomass-burning aerosols, particularly in the dry season, and aerosols at the Manus site have climatologic characteristics in between the Darwin and Nauru sites. There are no obvious trends of aerosol loading for past decades at all three sites. El Nino/Southern Oscillation has its impacts on aerosol optical depth, as well as particle size and composition, at all three sites. Madden-Julian Oscillation modulates aerosol optical depth at the Manus and Nauru sites along the equator but has no apparent impact at the Darwin site. The annual or seasonal variation of aerosols is closely linked with Indo-Australian monsoons, exhibiting wet and dry season differences. The aerosol loading is significant lower with relatively larger particles in the wet season than in the dry season. There are significant diurnal cycles in both aerosol optical depth and Angstrom exponent at the Darwin site: low values of aerosol optical depth and Angstrom exponent in the midday and the two peaks in the early morning and late afternoon. There are noticeable changes between the dry and wet seasons. The amplitude of diurnal variation during La Nina periods is greater than that during El Nino periods. However, there are no significant diurnal variations of aerosol loading at the Manus and Nauru sites. Citation: Yin, B., and Q. Min (2013), Climatology of aerosol optical properties at ACRF sites in the tropical warm pool region, J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 118, 2620-2628, doi:10.1002/jgrd.50234.
The local role that land-atmosphere interactions play in the rainfall process has been often explored by investigating the initiation of moist convection as the top of the atmospheric boundary layer (ABL) crosses the lifting condensation level (LCL). However, this LCL crossing alone is not a sufficient indicator of the probability and intensity of subsequent convective precipitation, which is instead better characterized by the added consideration of the so-called convective available potential energy (CAPE). In this study, both the LCL crossing and CAPE are jointly considered as the primary indicators of the occurrence and intensity of moist convection in order to analyze the land-atmosphere interactions through a simple soil-plant system and a zero-dimensional mixed-layer model. The approach is explored using the free atmospheric conditions observed at the Central Facility in the Southern Great Plains, where the ABL analysis shows both dry and wet soil can be conducive to early moist convection depending on atmospheric conditions but CAPE always tends to be larger under wetter soil conditions. The combination of the two indicators, LCL crossing and CAPE, further allows us to classify free atmosphere and soil moisture regimes into positive and negative feedback regimes for moist convection. 2015. American Geophysical Union. All Rights Reserved.
An international field campaign aiming at atmospheric and oceanic processes associated with the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) was conducted in and around the tropical Indian Ocean during October 2011-March 2012. The objective of the field campaign was to collect observations urgently needed to expedite the progress of understanding the key processes of the MJO, focusing on its convective initiation but also including propagation and maturation, and ultimately to improve skills of numerical simulation and prediction of the MJO. Primary targets of the field campaign included interaction of atmospheric deep convection with its environmental moisture, evolution of cloud populations, and air- sea interaction. Several MJO events were captured by ground-based, airborne, and oceanic instruments with advanced observing technology. Numerical simulations and real-time forecasts were integrated components of the field campaign in its design and operation. Observations collected during the campaign provide unprecedented opportunities to reveal detailed processes of the MJO and to assist evaluation, improvement, and development of weather and climate models. The data policy of the campaign encourages the broad research community to use the field observations to advance the MJO study.
The objective of this study is to investigate the quality of clouds simulated by the National Centers for Environmental Prediction global forecast system (GFS) model and to examine the causes for some systematic errors seen in the simulations through use of satellite and ground-based measurements. In general, clouds simulated by the GFS model had similar spatial patterns and seasonal trends as those retrieved from passive and active satellite sensors, but large systematic biases exist for certain cloud regimes especially underestimation of low-level marine stratocumulus clouds in the eastern Pacific and Atlantic oceans. This led to the overestimation (underestimation) of outgoing longwave (shortwave) fluxes at the top-of-atmosphere. While temperature profiles from the GFS model were comparable to those obtained from different observational sources, the GFS model overestimated the relative humidity field in the upper and lower troposphere. The cloud condensed water mixing ratio, which is a key input variable in the current GFS cloud scheme, was largely underestimated due presumably to excessive removal of cloud condensate water through strong turbulent diffusion and/or an improper boundary layer scheme. To circumvent the problem associated with modeled cloud mixing ratios, we tested an alternative cloud parameterization scheme that requires inputs of atmospheric dynamic and thermodynamic variables. Much closer agreements were reached in cloud amounts, especially for marine stratocumulus clouds. We also evaluate the impact of cloud overlap on cloud fraction by applying a linear combination of maximum and random overlap assumptions with a de-correlation length determined from satellite products. Significantly better improvements were found for high-level clouds than for low-level clouds, due to differences in the dominant cloud geometry between these two distinct cloud types.
This is a hardcoded string to represent the absent abstract
Ground-based radiation measurements have been widely conducted to gain information on clouds and the surface radiation budget. To examine the existing techniques of cloud property retrieval and explore the underlying reasons for uncertainties, a newly developed approach that allows for simultaneous retrievals of cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements, XL2013, is used to derive cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site. The new results are compared with the separate retrieval of cloud fraction and cloud albedo using Long2006 and Liu2011, respectively. The retrievals from the broadband radiation measurements are further compared with those based on shortwave spectral measurements (Min2008). The comparison shows overall good agreement between the retrievals of both cloud fraction and cloud albedo, with noted differences, however. The Long2006 and Min2008 cloud fractions are greater on average than the XL2013 values. Compared to Min2008 and Liu2011, the XL2013 cloud albedo tends to be greater for thin clouds but smaller for thick clouds, with the differences decreasing with increasing cloud fraction; the neglect of land surface albedo and cloud absorption by Liu2011 also contributes the difference in cloud albedo. Further analysis reveals that the approaches that retrieve cloud fraction and cloud albedo separately may suffer from mutual contamination of errors in retrieved cloud fraction and cloud albedo.
In the Indo-Pacific region, mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) occur in a pattern consistent with the eastward propagation of the large-scale convective envelope of the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO). MCSs are major contributors to the total precipitation. Over the open ocean they tend to be merged or connected systems, while over the Maritime Continent area they tend to be separated or discrete. Over all regions affected by the MJO, connected systems increase in frequency during the active phase of the MJO. Characteristics of each type of MCS (separated or connected) do not vary much over MJO-affected regions. However, separated and connected MCSs differ in structure from each other. Connected MCSs have a larger size and produce less but colder-topped anvil cloud. For both connected and separated MCSs, larger systems tend to have colder cloud tops and less warmer-topped anvil cloud. The maximum height of MCS precipitating cores varies only slightly, and the variation is related to sea surface temperature. Enhanced large-scale convection, greater frequency of occurrence of connected MCSs, and increased midtroposphere moisture coincide, regardless of the region, season, or large-scale conditions (such as the concurrent phase of the MJO), suggesting that the coexistence of these phenomena is likely the nature of deep convection in this region. The increase of midtroposphere moisture observed in all convective regimes during large-scale convectively active phases suggests that the source of midtroposphere moisture is not local or instantaneous and that the accumulation of midtroposphere moisture over MJO-affected regions needs to be better understood.
Summertime observations for 13 yr at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site are used to study fair-weather shallow cumuli (ShCu). To roughly separate forced from active ShCu, days are categorized into thin-or thick-ShCu days according to whether the daytime-average cloud depth exceeds 300 m. By comparing diurnal-cycle composites of these two regimes, the authors document differences in cloud properties and their radiative impacts. The differences in environmental conditions provide clues as to what controls ShCu vertical extent. Higher boundary layer (BL) relative humidity (RH) is found on thick-cloud days, associated with largescale moisture advection before sunrise. This higher BL RH not only contributes to a lower cloud base but also to the penetrating ability of an air parcel to reach higher levels, and thus leads to larger cloud vertical extent. Although not as significant as BL RH, ShCu vertical extent also varies with thermal stability and surface fluxes. Enhanced stability above cloud on thin-cloud days may limit cloud vertical extent. A larger sensible heat flux on thin-cloud days encourages greater entrainment of dry air into the BL, whereas a larger latent heat flux on thick-cloud days helps sustain higher afternoon BL RH. These heat flux differences help maintain the BL RH differences that appear to control cloud vertical extent. This study provides observational evidence that forced clouds are related to BL large-eddy overshoots limited by a stronger inversion whereas higher moisture and a weaker stability above favor active cumuli with greater vertical extent.
Substantial uncertainties still exist in the scientific understanding of the possible interactions between urban and natural (biogenic) emissions in the production and transformation of atmospheric aerosol and the resulting impact on climate change. The US Department of Energy (DOE) Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program's Carbonaceous Aerosol and Radiative Effects Study (CARES) carried out in June 2010 in Central Valley, California, was a comprehensive effort designed to improve this understanding. The primary objective of the field study was to investigate the evolution of secondary organic and black carbon aerosols and their climate-related properties in the Sacramento urban plume as it was routinely transported into the forested Sierra Nevada foothills area. Urban aerosols and trace gases experienced significant physical and chemical transformations as they mixed with the reactive biogenic hydrocarbons emitted from the forest. Two heavily-instrumented ground sites - one within the Sacramento urban area and another about 40 km to the northeast in the foothills area - were set up to characterize the evolution of meteorological variables, trace gases, aerosol precursors, aerosol size, composition, and climate-related properties in freshly polluted and "aged" urban air. On selected days, the DOE G-1 aircraft was deployed to make similar measurements upwind and across the evolving Sacramento plume in the morning and again in the afternoon. The NASA B-200 aircraft, carrying remote sensing instruments, was also deployed to characterize the vertical and horizontal distribution of aerosols and aerosol optical properties within and around the plume. This overview provides: (a) the scientific background and motivation for the study, (b) the operational and logistical information pertinent to the execution of the study, (c) an overview of key observations and initial findings from the aircraft and ground-based sampling platforms, and (d) a roadmap of planned data analyses and focused modeling efforts that will facilitate the integration of new knowledge into improved representations of key aerosol processes and properties in climate models.
Understanding the effect of aerosols on climate requires knowledge of the size and chemical composition of individual aerosol particles-two fundamental properties that determine an aerosol's optical properties and ability to serve as cloud condensation or ice nuclei. Here we present our aircraft-compatible single particle mass spectrometers, SPLAT II and its new, miniaturized version, miniSPLAT that measure in-situ and in real-time the size and chemical composition of individual aerosol particles with extremely high sensitivity, temporal resolution, and sizing precision on the order of a monolayer. Although miniSPLAT's size, weight, and power consumption are significantly smaller, its performance is on par with SPLAT II. Both instruments operate in dual data acquisition mode to measure, in addition to single particle size and composition, particle number concentrations, size distributions, density, and asphericity with high temporal resolution. We also present ND-Scope, our newly developed interactive visual analytics software package. ND-Scope is designed to explore and visualize the vast amount of complex, multidimensional data acquired by our single particle mass spectrometers, along with other aerosol and cloud characterization instruments on-board aircraft. We demonstrate that ND-Scope makes it possible to visualize the relationships between different observables and to view the data in a geo-spatial context, using the interactive and fully coupled Google Earth and Parallel Coordinates displays. Here we illustrate the utility of ND-Scope to visualize the spatial distribution of atmospheric particles of different compositions, and explore the relationship between individual particle compositions and their activity as cloud condensation nuclei.
Two field campaigns, the African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) and the Tropical Warm Pool International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE), took place in 2006 near Niamey, Niger, and Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia, providing extensive observations of mesoscale convective systems (MCSs) near a desert and a tropical coast, respectively. Under the constraint of their observations, three-dimensional cloud-resolving model simulations are carried out and presented in this paper to replicate the basic characteristics of the observed MCSs. All of the modeled MCSs exhibit a distinct structure having deep convective clouds accompanied by stratiform and anvil clouds. In contrast to the approximately 100-km-scale MCSs observed in TWP-ICE, the MCSs in AMNIA have been successfully simulated with a scale of about 400 km. These modeled AMMA and TWP-ICE MCSs offer an opportunity to understand the structure and mechanism of MCSs. Comparing the water budgets between AMMA and TWP-ICE MCSs suggests that TWP-ICE convective clouds have stronger ascent while the mesoscale ascent outside convective clouds in AMMA is stronger. A case comparison, with the aid of sensitivity experiments, also suggests that vertical wind shear and ice crystal (or dust aerosol) concentration can significantly impact stratiform and anvil clouds (e.g., their areas) in MCSs. In addition, the obtained water budgets quantitatively describe the transport of water between convective, stratiform, and anvil regions as well as water sources/sinks from microphysical processes, providing information that can be used to help determine parameters in the convective and cloud parameterizations in general circulation models (GCMs).
Tropical and subtropical clouds have a large influence in shaping the observed patterns of wind, temperature, and moisture in many time scales and different regions of the world. While shallow clouds have been traditionally investigated in trade wind regimes, shallow clouds in the deep tropics have recently gained attention because of their possible importance in the development of deep convection. Shallow clouds are ubiquitous in the tropics and connect the boundary layer and the lower troposphere. Difficulties to observe and model shallow clouds have resulted in unclear aspects about their interactions with the other elements of the tropical variability. It is a challenging task to address such interactions, but the objective is well worth to pursue. This study takes a three-pronged approach to advance the understanding of the role of shallow convection in the variability of the deep tropics. The first part of this study investigates the variability and feedbacks of shallow clouds in their large-scale environment from more than ten years of observations of a vertically pointing cloud radar and soundings over Manus Island, in the tropical western Pacific. To do so, it is developed a method to estimate bulk shallow cloud moistening due evaporation of cloud condensed water from observations of liquid water content, precipitation, and temporal cloud fractions. The second part of this study combines the Manus and reanalysis data to investigate the role of shallow convection in the evolution of large-scale convective events associated and not associated to Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO). The third part of this work concerns the role of shallow convection in driving large-scale circulation. To investigate this problem, the region of study is focused on the tropical Atlantic. Surface equatorial winds over the equatorial Atlantic in models are notorious for their westerly biases and their association to Amazonian rainfall. This part of the study investigates the connection between the westerly biases and shallow convection over the Amazonia using simulations of several atmospheric global climate models. Our results indicate that shallow clouds provide a non-negligible amount of moisture to the lower troposphere. They, however, lack coherency with perturbations in low-tropospheric moisture, temperature, and wind circulation in synoptic time scales. In longer time scales, anomalies in their depth, occurrence, and estimated moistening can be, to a certain degree, related to those in lower tropospheric stability. Consistently, during the five to tend days prior to the rainfall peaks of MJO and non-MJO large-scale convective events at Manus, anomalous increases in low-level moisture are evident, but they cannot be attributed to moistening by shallow clouds. During this period, shallow clouds provide background moistening. The characteristic low-level moistening prior the rainfall peaks of MJO events is mainly caused by anomalous nonlinear zonal advection. The analysis about the role of shallow convection in the MJO revealed MJO signals that have not been observed before. They include an ultra slow (2.8 m s-1) structure in mid to upper tropospheric temperature and geopotential height anomalies that propagates eastward over the central and eastern Pacific with no discernable anomalies in precipitation associated to it. These results suggest the existence of a intrinsic structure of the MJO governed by dry dynamics. Different process might act to energize this structure. Moist convection, including shallow convection, can be an effective one. The importance of shallow convection in the tropical variability and circulation seems to be case-dependent and subject to the interaction with other factors. This is the case in the equatorial Atlantic. Our results indicate that westerly biases over this region can be associated to weak or absent Amazonian shallow convection, but they can also be associated to weak boundary layer entrainment. ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric sciences, Meteorology. Citation reproduced with permissio of ProQuest LLC.
Observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) site at Manus Island in the western Pacific and (re)analysis products are used to investigate moistening by shallow cumulus clouds and by the circulation in large-scale convective events. Large-scale convective events are defined as rainfall anomalies larger than one standard deviation for a minimum of three consecutive days over a 10 degrees x 10 degrees domain centered at Manus. These events are categorized into two groups: Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) events, with eastward propagation, and non-MJO events, without propagation. Shallow cumulus clouds are identified as continuous time-height echoes from 1-min cloud radar observations with their tops below the freezing level and their bases within the boundary layer. Daily moistening tendencies of shallow clouds, estimated from differences between their mean liquid water content and precipitation over their presumed life spans, and those of physical processes and advection from (re)analysis products are compared with local moistening tendencies from soundings. Increases in low-level moisture before rainfall peaks of MJO and non-MJO events are evident in both observations and reanalyses. Before and after the rainfall peaks of these events, precipitating and nonprecipitating shallow clouds exist all the time, but their occurrence fluctuates randomly. Their contributions to moisture tendencies through evaporation of condensed water are evident. These clouds provide perpetual background moistening to the lower troposphere but do not cause the observed increase in low-level moisture leading to rainfall peaks. Such moisture increase is mainly caused by anomalous nonlinear zonal advection.
Measurements of ice number concentration in clouds are important but still pose problems. The pattern of ice development in stratiform mixed-phase clouds (SMCs) offers an opportunity to use cloud radar reflectivity (Ze) measurements and other cloud properties to retrieve ice number concentrations. To quantify the strong temperature dependencies of ice crystal habits and growth rates, a one-dimensional (1D) ice growth model has been developed to calculate ice diffusional growth and riming growth along ice particle fallout trajectories in SMCs. The radar reflectivity and fallout velocity profiles of ice crystals calculated from the 1D ice growth model are evaluated with the Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM) Climate Research Facility (ACRF) ground-based high-vertical-resolution radar measurements. A method has been developed to retrieve ice number concentrations in SMCs at a specific cloud-top temperature (CTT) and liquid water path (LWP) by combining Ze measurements and 1D ice growth model simulations. The retrieved ice number concentrations in SMCs are evaluated using integrated airborne in situ and remote sensing measurements and three-dimensional cloud-resolving model simulations with a bin microphysical scheme. The statistical evaluations show that the retrieved ice number concentrations in the SMCs are within an uncertainty of a factor of 2.
Cloud vertical structure is a key quantity in meteorological and climate studies, but it is also among the most difficult quantities to observe. In this study, we develop a long-term (10 years) radiosonde-based cloud profile product for the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program Southern Great Plains (SGP), Tropical Western Pacific (TWP), and North Slope of Alaska (NSA) sites and a shorter-term product for the ARM Mobile Facility (AMF) deployed in Shouxian, Anhui Province, China (AMF-China). The AMF-China site was in operation from 14 May to 28 December 2008; the ARM sites have been collecting data for over 15 years. The Active Remote Sensing of Cloud (ARSCL) value-added product (VAP), which combines data from the 95-GHz W-band ARM Cloud Radar (WACR) and/or the 35-GHz Millimeter Microwave Cloud Radar (MMCR), is used in this study to validate the radiosonde-based cloud layer retrieval method. The performance of the radiosonde-based cloud layer retrieval method applied to data from different climate regimes is evaluated. Overall, cloud layers derived from the ARSCL VAP and radiosonde data agree very well at the SGP and AMF-China sites. At the TWP and NSA sites, the radiosonde tends to detect more cloud layers in the upper troposphere.
Knowledge of cloud vertical structure is important for meteorological and climate studies due to the impact of clouds on both the Earth's radiation budget and atmospheric adiabatic heating. Yet it is among the most difficult quantities to observe. In this study, we develop a long-term (10 years) radiosonde-based cloud profile product over the Southern Great Plains and along with ground-based and space-borne remote sensing products, use it to evaluate cloud layer distributions simulated by the National Centers for Environmental Prediction global forecast system (GFS) model. The primary objective of this study is to identify advantages and limitations associated with different cloud layer detection methods and model simulations. Cloud occurrence frequencies are evaluated on monthly, annual, and seasonal scales. Cloud vertical distributions from all datasets are bimodal with a lower peak located in the boundary layer and an upper peak located in the high troposphere. In general, radiosonde low-level cloud retrievals bear close resemblance to the ground-based remote sensing product in terms of their variability and gross spatial patterns. The ground-based remote sensing approach tends to underestimate high clouds relative to the radiosonde-based estimation and satellite products which tend to underestimate low clouds. As such, caution must be exercised to use any single product. Overall, the GFS model simulates less low-level and more high-level clouds than observations. In terms of total cloud cover, GFS model simulations agree fairly well with the ground-based remote sensing product. A large wet bias is revealed in GFS-simulated relative humidity fields at high levels in the atmosphere.
By using the radiosonde measurements collected at Shouxian, China, we examined the dynamics and thermodynamics of single- and two-layer clouds formed at low and middle levels. The analyses indicated that the horizontal wind speed above the cloud layers was higher than those within and below cloud layers. The maximum balloon ascent speed (5.3 m s(-1)) was located in the vicinity of the layer with the maximum cloud occurrence frequency (24.4%), indicating an upward motion (0.1-0.16 m s(-1)). The average thickness, magnitude and gradient of the temperature inversion layer above single-layer clouds were 117 +/- 94 m, 1.3 +/- 1.3A degrees C and 1.4 +/- 1.5A degrees C (100 m)(-1), respectively. The average temperature inversion magnitude was the same (1.3A degrees C) for single-low and single-middle clouds; however, a larger gradient [1.7 +/- 1.8A degrees C (100 m)(-1)] and smaller thickness (94 +/- 67 m) were detected above single-low clouds relative to those above single-middle clouds [0.9 +/- 0.7A degrees C (100 m)(-1) and 157 +/- 120 m]. For the two-layer cloud, the temperature inversion parameters were 106 +/- 59 m, 1.0 +/- 0.9A degrees C and 1.0 +/- 1.0A degrees C (100 m)(-1) above the upper-layer cloud and 82 +/- 60 m, 0.6 +/- 0.9A degrees C and 0.7 +/- 0.6A degrees C (100 m)(-1) above the low-layer cloud. Absolute differences between the cloud-base height (cloud-top height) and the lifting condensation level (equilibrium level) were less than 0.5 km for 66.4% (36.8%) of the cases analyzed in summer.
Cloud vertical structure is a key quantity in meteorological and climate studies, but it is also among the most difficult quantities to observe. In this study, we develop a long-term (10 years) radiosonde-based cloud profile product for the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program Southern Great Plains (SGP), Tropical Western Pacific (TWP), and North Slope of Alaska (NSA) sites and a shorter-term product for the ARM Mobile Facility (AMF) deployed in Shouxian, Anhui Province, China (AMF-China). The AMF-China site was in operation from 14 May to 28 December 2008; the ARM sites have been collecting data for over 15 years. The Active Remote Sensing of Cloud (ARSCL) value-added product (VAP), which combines data from the 95-GHz W-band ARM Cloud Radar (WACR) and/or the 35-GHz Millimeter Microwave Cloud Radar (MMCR), is used in this study to validate the radiosonde-based cloud layer retrieval method. The performance of the radiosonde-based cloud layer retrieval method applied to data from different climate regimes is evaluated. Overall, cloud layers derived from the ARSCL VAP and radiosonde data agree very well at the SGP and AMF-China sites. At the TWP and NSA sites, the radiosonde tends to detect more cloud layers in the upper troposphere.
Knowledge of cloud vertical structure is important for meteorological and climate studies due to the impact of clouds on both the Earth's radiation budget and atmospheric adiabatic heating. Yet it is among the most difficult quantities to observe. In this study, we develop a long-term (10 years) radiosonde-based cloud profile product over the Southern Great Plains and along with ground-based and space-borne remote sensing products, use it to evaluate cloud layer distributions simulated by the National Centers for Environmental Prediction global forecast system (GFS) model. The primary objective of this study is to identify advantages and limitations associated with different cloud layer detection methods and model simulations. Cloud occurrence frequencies are evaluated on monthly, annual, and seasonal scales. Cloud vertical distributions from all datasets are bimodal with a lower peak located in the boundary layer and an upper peak located in the high troposphere. In general, radiosonde low-level cloud retrievals bear close resemblance to the ground-based remote sensing product in terms of their variability and gross spatial patterns. The ground-based remote sensing approach tends to underestimate high clouds relative to the radiosonde-based estimation and satellite products which tend to underestimate low clouds. As such, caution must be exercised to use any single product. Overall, the GFS model simulates less low-level and more high-level clouds than observations. In terms of total cloud cover, GFS model simulations agree fairly well with the ground-based remote sensing product. A large wet bias is revealed in GFS-simulated relative humidity fields at high levels in the atmosphere.
This study uses aircraft measurements of relative humidity and ice crystal size distribution collected during the SPARTICUS (Small PARTicles In CirrUS) field campaign to evaluate and constrain ice cloud parameterizations in the Community Atmosphere Model version 5. About 200 h of data were collected during the campaign between January and June 2010, providing the longest aircraft measurements available so far for cirrus clouds in the midlatitudes. The probability density function (PDF) of ice crystal number concentration (N-i) derived from the high-frequency (1 Hz) measurements features a strong dependence on ambient temperature. As temperature decreases from -35 degrees C to -62 degrees C, the peak in the PDF shifts from 10-20 L-1 to 200-1000 L-1, while N-i shows a factor of 6-7 increase. Model simulations are performed with two different ice nucleation schemes for pure ice-phase clouds. One of the schemes can reproduce a clear increase of N-i with decreasing temperature by using either an observation-based ice nuclei spectrum or a classical-theory-based spectrum with a relatively low (5-10 %) maximum freezing ratio for dust aerosols. The simulation with the other scheme, which assumes a high maximum freezing ratio (100 %), shows much weaker temperature dependence of N-i. Simulations are also performed to test empirical parameters related to water vapor deposition and the autoconversion of ice crystals to snow. Results show that a value between 0.05 and 0.1 for the water vapor deposition coefficient, and 250 mu m for the critical diameter that distinguishes ice crystals from snow, can produce good agreement between model simulation and the SPARTICUS measurements in terms of N-i and effective radius. The climate impact of perturbing these parameters is also discussed.
Summertime observations for 13 yr at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site are used to study fair-weather shallow cumuli (ShCu). To roughly separate forced from active ShCu, days are categorized into "thin-" or "thick-" ShCu days according to whether the daytime-average cloud depth exceeds 300 m. By comparing diurnal-cycle composites of these two regimes, the authors document differences in cloud properties and their radiative impacts. The differences in environmental conditions provide clues as to what controls ShCu vertical extent. Higher boundary layer (BL) relative humidity (RH) is found on thick-cloud days, associated with large-scale moisture advection before sunrise. This higher BL RH not only contributes to a lower cloud base but also to the penetrating ability of an air parcel to reach higher levels, and thus leads to larger cloud vertical extent. Although not as significant as BL RH, ShCu vertical extent also varies with thermal stability and surface fluxes. Enhanced stability above cloud on thin-cloud days may limit cloud vertical extent. A larger sensible heat flux on thin-cloud days encourages greater entrainment of dry air into the BL, whereas a larger latent heat flux on thick-cloud days helps sustain higher afternoon BL RH. These heat flux differences help maintain the BL RH differences that appear to control cloud vertical extent. This study provides observational evidence that forced clouds are related to BL large-eddy overshoots limited by a stronger inversion whereas higher moisture and a weaker stability above favor active cumuli with greater vertical extent.
From 4years of observations from Barrow, Alaska, it is shown that the cloud radiative impact on the surface is a net warming effect between October and May and a net cooling in summer. During episodes of high surface haze aerosol concentrations and cloudy skies, both the net warming and net cooling are amplified, ranging from +12.2 Wm-2 in February to -11.8 Wm-2 in August. In liquid clouds, approximately 50%-70% of this change is caused by changes in cloud particle effective radius, with the remainder being caused by unknown atmospheric feedbacks that increase cloud water path. While the yearly averaged warming and cooling effects nearly cancel, the timing of the forcing may be a relevant control of the amplitude and timing of sea ice melt. 2014. American Geophysical Union.
Current climate models still have large uncertainties in estimating biogenic trace gases, which can significantly affect atmospheric chemistry and secondary aerosol formation that ultimately influences air quality and aerosol radiative forcing. These uncertainties result from many factors, including uncertainties in land surface processes and specification of vegetation types, both of which can affect the simulated near-surface fluxes of biogenic volatile organic compounds (BVOCs). In this study, the latest version of Model of Emissions of Gases and Aerosols from Nature (MEGAN v2.1) is coupled within the land surface scheme CLM4 (Community Land Model version 4.0) in the Weather Research and Forecasting model with chemistry (WRF-Chem). In this implementation, MEGAN v2.1 shares a consistent vegetation map with CLM4 for estimating BVOC emissions. This is unlike MEGAN v2.0 in the public version of WRF-Chem that uses a stand-alone vegetation map that differs from what is used by land surface schemes. This improved modeling framework is used to investigate the impact of two land surface schemes, CLM4 and Noah, on BVOCs and examine the sensitivity of BVOCs to vegetation distributions in California. The measurements collected during the Carbonaceous Aerosol and Radiative Effects Study (CARES) and the California Nexus of Air Quality and Climate Experiment (CalNex) conducted in June of 2010 provided an opportunity to evaluate the simulated BVOCs. Sensitivity experiments show that land surface schemes do influence the simulated BVOCs, but the impact is much smaller than that of vegetation distributions. This study indicates that more effort is needed to obtain the most appropriate and accurate land cover data sets for climate and air quality models in terms of simulating BVOCs, oxidant chemistry and, consequently, secondary organic aerosol formation.
This paper introduces a new algorithm to detect aerosols and clouds based on micropulse lidar measurements. A semidiscretization processing technique is first used to inhibit the impact of increasing noise with distance. The value distribution equalization method which reduces the magnitude of signal variations with distance is then introduced. Combined with empirical threshold values, we determine if the signal waves indicate clouds or aerosols. This method can separate clouds and aerosols with high accuracy, although differentiation between aerosols and clouds are subject to more uncertainties depending on the thresholds selected. Compared with the existing Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program lidar-based cloud product, the new method appears more reliable and detects more clouds with high bases. The algorithm is applied to a year of observations at both the U.S. Southern Great Plains (SGP) and China Taihu sites. At the SGP site, the cloud frequency shows a clear seasonal variation with maximum values in winter and spring and shows bimodal vertical distributions with maximum occurrences at around 3-6 km and 8-12 km. The annual averaged cloud frequency is about 50%. The dominant clouds are stratiform in winter and convective in summer. By contrast, the cloud frequency at the Taihu site shows no clear seasonal variation and the maximum occurrence is at around 1 km. The annual averaged cloud frequency is about 15% higher than that at the SGP site. A seasonal analysis of cloud base occurrence frequency suggests that stratiform clouds dominate at the Taihu site.
Quantifying the uncertainty of cloud retrievals is an emerging topic important for both cloud process studies and modeling studies. This paper presents a general approach to estimate uncertainties in ground-based retrievals of cloud properties. This approach, called the perturbation method, quantifies the cloud retrieval uncertainties by perturbing the cloud retrieval influential factors (like inputs and parameters) within their error ranges. The error ranges for the cloud retrieval inputs and parameters are determined by either instrument limitations or comparisons against aircraft observations. With the knowledge from observations and the retrieval algorithms, the perturbation method can provide an estimate of the cloud retrieval uncertainties, regardless of the complexity (like nonlinearity) of the retrieval algorithm. The relative contribution to the uncertainties of retrieved cloud properties from the inputs, assumptions, and parameterizations can also be assessed with this perturbation method. As an example, we apply this approach to the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program baseline retrieval, MICROBASE. Only nonprecipitating single-phase (liquid or ice) clouds have been examined in this study. Results reveal that different influential factors play the dominant contributing role to the uncertainties of different cloud properties. To reduce uncertainties in cloud retrievals, future efforts should be emphasized on the major contributing factors for considered cloud properties. This study also shows high sensitivity of cloud retrieval uncertainties to different cloud types, with the largest uncertainties for deep convective clouds. Limitations and further efforts for this uncertainty quantification method are discussed.
This paper introduces a new algorithm to detect aerosols and clouds based on micropulse lidar measurements. A semidiscretization processing technique is first used to inhibit the impact of increasing noise with distance. The value distribution equalization method which reduces the magnitude of signal variations with distance is then introduced. Combined with empirical threshold values, we determine if the signal waves indicate clouds or aerosols. This method can separate clouds and aerosols with high accuracy, although differentiation between aerosols and clouds are subject to more uncertainties depending on the thresholds selected. Compared with the existing Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program lidar-based cloud product, the new method appears more reliable and detects more clouds with high bases. The algorithm is applied to a year of observations at both the U.S. Southern Great Plains (SGP) and China Taihu sites. At the SGP site, the cloud frequency shows a clear seasonal variation with maximum values in winter and spring and shows bimodal vertical distributions with maximum occurrences at around 3-6km and 8-12km. The annual averaged cloud frequency is about 50%. The dominant clouds are stratiform in winter and convective in summer. By contrast, the cloud frequency at the Taihu site shows no clear seasonal variation and the maximum occurrence is at around 1km. The annual averaged cloud frequency is about 15% higher than that at the SGP site. A seasonal analysis of cloud base occurrence frequency suggests that stratiform clouds dominate at the Taihu site.
Quantifying the uncertainty of cloud retrievals is an emerging topic important for both cloud process studies and modeling studies. This paper presents a general approach to estimate uncertainties in ground-based retrievals of cloud properties. This approach, called the perturbation method, quantifies the cloud retrieval uncertainties by perturbing the cloud retrieval influential factors (like inputs and parameters) within their error ranges. The error ranges for the cloud retrieval inputs and parameters are determined by either instrument limitations or comparisons against aircraft observations. With the knowledge from observations and the retrieval algorithms, the perturbation method can provide an estimate of the cloud retrieval uncertainties, regardless of the complexity (like nonlinearity) of the retrieval algorithm. The relative contribution to the uncertainties of retrieved cloud properties from the inputs, assumptions, and parameterizations can also be assessed with this perturbation method. As an example, we apply this approach to the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program baseline retrieval, MICROBASE. Only nonprecipitating single-phase (liquid or ice) clouds have been examined in this study. Results reveal that different influential factors play the dominant contributing role to the uncertainties of different cloud properties. To reduce uncertainties in cloud retrievals, future efforts should be emphasized on the major contributing factors for considered cloud properties. This study also shows high sensitivity of cloud retrieval uncertainties to different cloud types, with the largest uncertainties for deep convective clouds. Limitations and further efforts for this uncertainty quantification method are discussed.
In this dissertation, interactions between land-surface heterogeneities, land-atmosphere coupling, and moist convection and related mesoscale circulations were investigated in four major studies to improve and advance the understanding of high-resolution model simulations of regional convection and precipitation. A number of short-term (i.e., 24-48 hours) retrospective numerical experiments were conducted over a variety of land-atmosphere coupling hotspot regions across the globe. First, impacts of heterogeneous land surface on turbulent flow and mesoscale simulations were assessed. Experiments were conducted using the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model coupled with a simple (slab) land surface model (LSM), a modestly complex Noah LSM, and a land data assimilation system (LDAS) with detailed surface fields. Three heterogeneity length scales: 1, 3, and 9 km, were employed to alter land cover and land use. The response of high-resolution model simulations' to spatial scales changes of land-surface heterogeneity by modification of land-surface properties and changes in land-surface representation were investigated. Results indicate that both land-surface parameterizations and surface heterogeneity affect model simulations, and the impact of land-surface parameterizations is found to be more important, particularly for low frequency (f 10-4 hz) eddies and mesoscale circulations. Replacing a simple slab land model with more detailed land surface models (LSMs) (e.g., Noah or High-Resolution Land Data Assimilation System) can help reduce uncertainties in the simulation of surface fluxes which may be greatly affected by land-surface heterogeneity via improved turbulent characteristics over heterogeneous landscapes. An important result that emerges from the analysis is that the impact of land-surface heterogeneity on atmospheric feedbacks can be detected in mesoscale circulations that are roughly four times the heterogeneity spatial scale. It follows that the heterogeneity length scale that can influence mesoscale circulations would be a function of grid spacing in the model. Second, the role of land-atmosphere coupling over regions with relatively strong coupling between land-surface conditions and moist convection were assessed. The need for adopting a dynamic coupling strength within the land surface model was assessed by analyzing rainfall events and impacts of land-atmosphere coupling using the Noah land model and WRF model simulations over the U.S. southern Great Plains (SGP), Europe, northern India, and West Africa. Land-atmosphere coupling strength impacts on model parameterizations (i.e., land surface processes, PBL dynamics, and moist convection) were quantified and the range of regional variation in the coupling coefficient for model simulations was documented. Results indicate that the adoption of a dynamic land-atmosphere coupling formulation helps improve the simulation of surface fluxes and the resulting atmospheric state, thus dynamic coupling shows promise in modulating model results and improving convective system simulation and precipitation forecasts. For the four regions, the surface coupling coefficient does not affect the general location but could improve the intensity of simulated precipitation. Results highlight that there is high uncertainty in land-atmosphere coupling and the results from this and prior studies need to be considered with caution. In particular, zones identified as coupling hotspots in climate studies and their coupling strength would likely change depending on the model formulations and coupling coefficient assigned. Third, impacts of an updated convection scheme on high-resolution precipitation forecasts were assessed. At high resolution spatial scales, precipitation biases and errors can occur due to uncertainties in initial meteorological conditions, grid-scale cloud microphysics schemes, and/or subgrid-scale convection schemes. To reduce precipitation biases and uncertainties, scale-aware parameterized cloud dynamics were introduced to high-resolution forecasts by aking several changes to the Kain-Fritsch (KF) convection parameterization scheme (CPS) in the WRF model. These changes include subgrid-scale cloud radiation interactions, a convective adjustment timescale, the cloud updraft mass flux impacting grid-scale vertical velocity, and a LCL-based methodology for parameterizing entrainment. This updated KF (UKF) CPS allows the convection scheme to facilitate a smooth transition from parameterized cloud physics to resolved grid-scale cloud physics across different grid resolutions. Results indicate that (1) high-resolution precipitation forecasting is more sensitive to the source of initial conditions than to grid-scale microphysics or convective parameterizations, and (2) the UKF CPS greatly alleviates excessive precipitation at 9 km grid spacing and improves results at 3 km grid spacing as well. In the last part of this dissertation, impacts of land-atmosphere-convection interactions on regional precipitation intensity and variation in the WRF model were assessed. Sensitivity experiments including effects of LSM, land-atmosphere coupling strength, and CPS on the fields of precipitation, surface scalars, and convection reveal that including a more detailed land surface parameterization, a dynamical surface coupling strength coefficient, and UKF CPS together, improves mesoscale simulations of several meteorological and convection parameters in the short-term high-resolution WRF model, increasing accuracy about 40% for precipitation intensity forecasts. (Abstract shortened by UMI.). ProQuest Subject Headings: Atmospheric sciences. Citation reproduced with permission of ProQuest LLC.
Efforts to improve the prediction accuracy of high-resolution (1-10 km) surface precipitation distribution and variability are of vital importance to local aspects of air pollution, wet deposition, and regional climate. However, precipitation biases and errors can occur at these spatial scales due to uncertainties in initial meteorological conditions and/or grid-scale cloud microphysics schemes. In particular, it is still unclear to what extent a subgrid-scale convection scheme could be modified to bring in scale awareness for improving high-resolution short-term precipitation forecasts in the WRF Model. To address these issues, the authors introduced scale-aware parameterized cloud dynamics for high-resolution forecasts by making several changes to the Kain-Fritsch (KF) convective parameterization scheme in the WRF Model. These changes include subgrid-scale cloud-radiation interactions, a dynamic adjustment time scale, impacts of cloud updraft mass fluxes on grid-scale vertical velocity, and lifting condensation level-based entrainment methodology that includes scale dependency. A series of 48-h retrospective forecasts using a combination of three treatments of convection (KF, updated KF, and the use of no cumulus parameterization), two cloud microphysics schemes, and two types of initial condition datasets were performed over the U.S. southern Great Plains on 9- and 3-km grid spacings during the summers of 2002 and 2010. Results indicate that 1) the source of initial conditions plays a key role in high-resolution precipitation forecasting, and 2) the authors' updated KF scheme greatly alleviates the excessive precipitation at 9-km grid spacing and improves results at 3-km grid spacing as well. Overall, the study found that the updated KF scheme incorporated into a high-resolution model does provide better forecasts for precipitation location and intensity. 2016 American Meteorological Society.
AbstractEfforts to improve the prediction accuracy of high resolution (1-10 km) surface precipitation distribution and variability are of vital importance to local aspects of air pollution, wet deposition, and regional climate. However, precipitation biases and errors can occur at these spatial scales due to uncertainties in initial meteorological conditions and/or grid-scale cloud microphysics schemes. In particular, it is still unclear to what extent a subgrid-scale convection scheme could be modified to bring in scale-awareness for improving high-resolution short-term precipitation forecasts in the WRF model. To address these issues, we introduced scale-aware parameterized cloud dynamics for high-resolution forecasts by making several changes to the Kain-Fritsch (KF) convective parameterization scheme in the WRF model. These changes include subgrid-scale cloud-radiation interactions, a dynamic adjustment timescale, impacts of cloud updraft mass fluxes on grid-scale vertical velocity, and lifting condensation level-based entrainment methodology that includes scale dependency.A series of 48-hour retrospective forecasts using a combination of three treatments of convection (KF, updated KF, and the use of no cumulus parameterization), two cloud microphysics schemes and two types of initial condition datasets were performed over the U.S. southern Great Plains on 9- and 3-km grid spacings during the summers of 2002 and 2010. Results indicate that (1) the source of initial conditions play a key role in high-resolution precipitation forecasting, and (2) our updated KF scheme greatly alleviates the excessive precipitation at 9-km grid spacing and improves results at 3-km grid spacing as well. Overall, we found that the updated KF scheme incorporated into a high-resolution model does provide better forecasts for precipitation location and intensity.
Updraft speeds of thermals have always been difficult to measure, despite the significant role they play in transporting pollutants and in cloud formation and precipitation. In this study, updraft speeds in buoyancy-driven planetary boundary layers (PBLs) measured by Doppler lidar are found to be correlated with properties of the PBL and surface over the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site operated by the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM). Based on the relationships found here, two approaches are proposed to estimate both maximum (Wmax) and cloud-base (Wcb) updraft speeds using satellite data together with some ancillary meteorological data of PBL depth, wind speed at 10-m height, and air temperature at 2-m height. The required satellite input data are cloud-base and surface skin temperatures. PBL depth can be determined by using cloud-base temperature in combination with European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) interim reanalysis data. Validation against lidar-measured updraft speeds demonstrated the feasibility of retrieving Wmaxand Wcbusing high-resolution Suomi-National Polar-Orbiting Partnership Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (Suomi-NPP VIIRS) measurements over land for PBLs with thermally driven convective clouds during the satellite overpass time. The root-mean-square errors (RMSE) of Wmaxand Wcbare 0.32 and 0.42 m s-1, respectively. This method does not work for a stable or a mechanically driven PBL. 2015 American Meteorological Society.
Measurements done by the Department of Energy/Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program, at the Southern Great Plains, the central Amazon, and on board an oceangoing ship between Honolulu and Los Angeles, show that updraft speeds measured by Doppler lidar and 95GHz cloud radar are tightly linearly correlated with cloud base height (H-b). Based on these relationships, a method of satellite retrieval of maximum (W-max) and cloud base (W-b) updraft speeds in cloud topped planetary boundary layer is proposed. H-b, as an input for updraft estimation, is obtained from satellite-retrieved cloud base temperature in combination with 2m air temperature derived from European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts reanalysis. Validation by the lidar and radar measurements shows good agreements for the satellite retrieval of W-max with RMSE (root-mean-square error)=0.38m/s and MAPE (mean absolute percentage error)=19% and W-b with RMSE=0.34m/s and MAPE=21%.
Updraft speeds of thermals have always been difficult to measure, despite the significant role they play in transporting pollutants and in cloud formation and precipitation. In this study, updraft speeds in buoyancy-driven planetary boundary layers (PBLs) measured by Doppler lidar are found to be correlated with properties of the PBL and surface over the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site operated by the U.S. Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM). Based on the relationships found here, two approaches are proposed to estimate both maximum (W-max) and cloud-base (W-cb) updraft speeds using satellite data together with some ancillary meteorological data of PBL depth, wind speed at 10-m height, and air temperature at 2-m height. The required satellite input data are cloud-base and surface skin temperatures. PBL depth can be determined by using cloud-base temperature in combination with European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) interim reanalysis data. Validation against lidar-measured updraft speeds demonstrated the feasibility of retrieving W-max and W-cb using high-resolution Suomi-National Polar-Orbiting Partnership Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (Suomi-NPP VIIRS) measurements over land for PBLs with thermally driven convective clouds during the satellite overpass time. The root-mean-square errors (RMSE) of W-max and W-cb are 0.32 and 0.42 m s(-1), respectively. This method does not work for a stable or a mechanically driven PBL.
Radar parameters including radar reflectivity, Doppler velocity, and Doppler spectrum width were obtained from Doppler spectrum moments. The Doppler spectrum moment is the convolution of both the particle spectrum and the mean air vertical motion. Unlike strong precipitation, the motion of particles in cirrus clouds is quite close to the air motion around them. In this study, a method of Doppler moments was developed and used to retrieve cirrus cloud microphysical properties such as the mean air vertical velocity, mass-weighted diameter, effective particle size, and ice content. Ice content values were retrieved using both the Doppler spectrum method and classic Z-IWC (radar reflectivity-ice water content) relationships; however, the former is a more reasonable method.
The recent ship-based Marine ARM GCSS Pacific Cross-Section Intercomparison (GPCI) Investigation of Clouds (MAGIC) field campaign with the marine-capable Second ARM Mobile Facility (AMF2) deployed on the Horizon Lines cargo container M/V Spirit provided nearly 200 days of intraseasonal high-resolution observations of clouds, precipitation, and marine boundary layer (MBL) structure on multiple legs between Los Angeles, California, and Honolulu, Hawaii. During the deployment, MBL clouds exhibited a much higher frequency of occurrence than other cloud types and occurred more often in the warm season than in the cold season. MBL clouds demonstrated a propensity to produce precipitation, which often evaporated before reaching the ocean surface. The formation of stratocumulus is strongly correlated to a shallow MBL with a strong inversion and a weak transition, while cumulus formation is associated with a much weaker inversion and stronger transition. The estimated inversion strength is shown to depend seasonally on the potential temperature at 700 hPa. The location of the commencement of systematic MBL decoupling always occurred eastward of the locations of cloud breakup, and the systematic decoupling showed a strong moisture stratification. The entrainment of the dry warm air above the inversion appears to be the dominant factor triggering the systematic decoupling, while surface latent heat flux, precipitation, and diurnal circulation did not play major roles. MBL clouds broke up over a short spatial region due to the changes in the synoptic conditions, implying that in real atmospheric conditions the MBL clouds do not have enough time to evolve as in the idealized models.
During 2005-2006, ACTIVE and two other joint field campaigns were conducted near the Tiwi Islands, north of Darwin, Australia where a local thunderstorm, known as Hector, was very well observed. The dataset collected during the campaign are used to validate a meso-scale model using different set-ups. Four cases of the Hector storm were simulated by running the WRF model in two modes: with or without incorporating local enhanced observations. In the operational forecast mode' (OP) the model was run in triply nested domains, with model initial and lateral boundary conditions provided solely by operational global analyses, and the finest domain having a horizontal resolution of 1 km. In the observed data incorporation mode' (DI) the model used a single domain at 1 km horizontal resolution, with either radiosonde or aircraft data incorporated during the run. All runs were validated against available observational data. The results showed that only one in four Hector cases was well simulated by the OP mode run, while three other Hector cases were simulated well in the DI mode. For all Hector-produced runs the general evolution and microphysical structure of the storm were reasonably simulated with some notable differences. A large deficiency in all the simulated storms was their smaller size and weaker intensity in comparison with the observed storms.
The advent of the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) onboard the Suomi National Polar-Orbiting Partnership (NPP) satellite provided a quantum jump in the satellite capabilities of retrieving cloud properties, because it nearly tripled the resolution in the thermal channels (375m). This allowed us to develop a methodology for retrieving convective cloud base temperature (T-b) and validate it over the Atmospheric System Research Southern Great Plains site for the satellite early afternoon overpass time. The standard error of the T-b retrieval was only 1.1 degrees C. The knowledge of T-b allows the calculation of cloud base height and the depth of the boundary layer, as well as the boundary layer water vapor mixing ratio with an accuracy of about 10%. The feasibility of retrieving cloud base temperature and height is an essential component that is required for retrieving cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) from satellites by using convective clouds as natural CCN chambers.
With continual advancements in data assimilation systems, new observing systems, and improvements in model parameterizations, several new atmospheric reanalysis datasets have recently become available. Before using these new reanalyses it is important to assess the strengths and underlying biases contained in each dataset. A study has been performed to evaluate and compare cloud fractions (CFs) and surface radiative fluxes in several of these latest reanalyses over the Arctic using 15 years (1994-2008) of high-quality Baseline Surface Radiation Network (BSRN) observations from Barrow (BAR) and Ny-Alesund (NYA) surface stations. The five reanalyses being evaluated in this study are (i) NASA's Modern-Era Retrospective analysis for Research and Applications (MERRA), (ii) NCEP's Climate Forecast System Reanalysis (CFSR), (hi) NOAA's Twentieth Century Reanalysis Project (20CR), (iv) ECMWF's Interim Reanalysis (ERA-I), and (v) NCEP-Department of Energy (DOE)'s Reanalysis II (R2). All of the reanalyses show considerable bias in reanalyzed CF during the year, especially in winter. The large CF biases have been reflected in the surface radiation fields, as monthly biases in shortwave (SW) and longwave (LW) fluxes are more than 90 (June) and 60 W m-2 (March), respectively, in some reanalyses. ERA-1 and CFSR performed the best in reanalyzing surface downwelling fluxes with annual mean biases less than 4.7 (SW) and 3.4 W m-2 (LW) over both Arctic sites. Even when producing the observed CF, radiation flux errors were found to exist in the reanalyses suggesting that they may not always be dependent on CF errors but rather on variations of more complex cloud properties, water vapor content, or aerosol loading within the reanalyses.
