A single-column version of the ECMWF model is used to test combined changes to the parameterizations of boundary layer, autoconversion/accretion, and rain evaporation processes at Graciosa.
Observations made at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program's Southern Great Plains (SGP) site during uniform nonprecipitating stratocumulus cloud conditions for a 14-h period are used to examine cloud-top entrainment processes and parameterizations.
In addition to satellite data, high-accuracy measurements from the Cooperative Air Sampling Network of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Earth System Research Laboratory (NOAA ESRL) are used, providing strong constraints on the remote surface atmosphere.
We discuss five inversion scenarios that make use of different GOSAT and SCIAMACHY XCH4 retrieval products, including two sets of GOSAT proxy retrievals processed independently by the Netherlands Institute for Space Research (SRON)/Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), and the University of Leicester (UL), and the RemoTeC "Full-Physics" (FP) XCH4 retrievals available from SRON/KIT.
Observational data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program, Climate Research Facility and numerical weather forecasting data from Environment Canada's Regional Global Environmental Multiscale (GEM15) model have been used in order to examine the suitability of available parameterizations for MH under statically stable conditions and also to compare the level of agreement between observed and modelled MH.
More than 44 000 domains of cloud properties retrieved from A-Train satellite data, each measuring 256 km in length, were used to assess the noise characteristics of TSA- and MC-based McICA models.
Furthermore, since MC models can utilize detailed descriptions of cloud particle scattering phase functions and TSAs use only corresponding asymmetry parameters, TSA-based McICAs, on average, overestimate all-sky top-of-atmosphere reflected flux density at small solar zenith angles (0) by approximate to 3 W m(-2) and underestimate it at large (0) by approximate to 1 W m(-2); vice versa for surface net flux density.
Samples were also analyzed for organic tracers, including levoglucosan, for use in a chemical mass balance (CMB) source apportionment model.
We estimate fluxes from surface CO2 measurements to use as baselines for comparing GOSAT data-derived fluxes.
Land surface models that capture the exchange and storage of energy in the soil and vegetation media use LST as a prognostic variable.
Two dimensionless parameters are used to characterize the sum and the partitioning.
The mapped results of the surface evaporation estimation are used to study the surface control on evaporation.
Here, we use airborne holographic imaging to visualize the spatial structure and droplet size distribution at the smallest turbulent scales, thereby observing their response to entrainment and mixing with clear air.
The Two-Column Aerosol Project (TCAP), conducted from June 2012 through June 2013, was a unique study designed to provide a comprehensive data set that can be used to investigate a number of important climate science questions, including those related to aerosol mixing state and aerosol radiative forcing.
The new scheme, called the cumulus potential (CuP) scheme, replaces the ad hoc trigger function used in the Kain-Fritsch cumulus parameterization with a trigger function related to the distribution of temperature and humidity in the convective boundary layer via probability density functions (PDFs).
This study utilizes six commonly used reanalysis products, including the NCEP-Department of Energy Reanalysis 2 (NCEP2), NCEP Climate Forecast System Reanalysis (CFSR), ECMWF interim reanalysis (ERA-Interim), Japanese 25-year Reanalysis Project (JRA-25), Modern-Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications (MERRA), and North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR), to evaluate features of the southern Great Plains low-level jet (LLJ) above the U.
These results suggest that, while simple relationships may be used to parameterize the gross properties of cirrus, more sophisticated parameterizations are required for representing the detailed structure and radiative feedbacks of these clouds.
These results suggest that the dynamics of COS are more complicated than once thought, but that it may still be possible to independently derive canopy-scale GPP from direct COS measurements and to use them as model constraints on the atmospheric carbon cycle.
The comparisons to the ground-based TCCON network and the results of the global retrieval are very encouraging, and they show that delta D retrieved from GOSAT should be a useful product that can be used to complement datasets from thermal-infrared sounder and ground-based networks and to extend the delta D dataset from SWIR retrievals established from the recently ended SCIAMACHY mission.
The Department of Energy (DOE) established the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement-Unmanned Aerospace Vehicle (ARM-UAV) Program to acquire valuable atmospheric data, to demonstrate the utility of UAVs for atmospheric research, and to foster the development of instruments and measurement techniques suitable for use on UAVs.
For the recent flight series with Proteus, ARMUAV developed a new payload of airborne instruments and used it to obtain climate-related data during a field deployment at the DOE Southern Great Plains site.
The new payload made maximum use of commercial hardware and networked sensors to provide maximum performance and flexibility with minimum cost.
Observations from the ARM SGP network of scanning precipitation radars are used to provide the larger-scale context of the cloud field and to highlight the advantages of the SACR to detect the numerous small nonprecipitating cloud elements.
CloudSat and Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) data are used to demonstrate that these four cloud types (in addition to stratocumulus clouds over the ocean) are not a particularity of the Niamey region and that midlevel clouds are present over the Sahara during most of the monsoon season.
Enlarged profile and comprehensive information of cirrus were retrieved when combined data of these two facilities were used, which indicated the necessity of joint observation.
The main goal of the RR was to identify for each of the four core products which algorithms should be used to generate the Climate Research Data Package (CRDP).
The observations are used to demonstrate that potential model biases in the amplitude of the diurnal cycle and mean cloud frequency would lead to larger errors in the surface energy budget when compared with biases in the timing of the diurnal cycle of cloud frequency.
Synergistic observations from the Advanced Along-Track Scanning Radiometer (AATSR) and the Medium Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MERIS), both mounted on the polar-orbiting Environmental Satellite (Envisat), are used for cloud screening.
For cloud top temperature, measurements in the AATSR infrared channels are used, while for cloud top pressure, measurements in the MERIS oxygen-A absorption channel are used.
The use of millimeter wavelength radars for probing precipitation has recently gained interest.
A 1-dimensional, simple, steady state microphysical model is used to estimate impacts of microphysical processes and attenuation on the profiles of radar observables at 35-GHz and thus provide criteria for identifying situations when attenuation or microphysical processes dominate KAZR observations.
Observations collected by the KAZR, rain gauge, disdrometer and scanning precipitating radars during the DY-NAMO/AMIE field campaign at the Gan Island of the tropical Indian Ocean are used to validate the proposed approach.
The refined dataset is used to document the daytime composites of fair-weather cumulus clouds properties.
Doppler velocities are processed for lower reflectivity thresholds that contain small cloud droplets having insignificant terminal velocities; thus, Doppler velocities are used as tracers of air motion.
In the past, wavelets have been used to simplify the dependence structure in multiple time or spatial series, but little has been done to apply wavelets as a modeling tool in a space-time setting, or, in particular, to take advantage of the localization of wavelets to capture the local dynamic characteristics of high-frequency meteorological data.
This asymptotic behaviour in non-drizzling clouds is found in both the droplet effective radius and optical depth, making it possible to use simple thresholds of optical depth, droplet size, or a combination of these two variables for drizzle delineation.
To investigate the veracity of radar-based retrievals, which can be used to verify numerically modeled vertical air motions, this article presents several case studies from storm events around Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia, in which measurements from a dual-frequency radar profiler system and volumetric radar-based wind retrievals are compared.
Ground-based radar and lidar observations obtained at the Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program's Tropical Western Pacific site located in Darwin, Australia, are used to retrieve ice cloud properties in anvil and cirrus clouds.
All methods establish some conditions on the relative humidity, and differ in the use of other variables, the thresholds applied, or the vertical resolution of the profile.
A single-column modelling framework is used in order to relate the features of the simulated diurnal cycle to physical processes in these four distinct cases.
Particular attention is given to providing realistic initial and boundary conditions at the surface and in the atmosphere, enabling the use of independent data for the evaluation of the simulations.
A case of daytime development of deep convection over tropical semi-arid land is used to evaluate the representation of convection in global and regional models.
Ultimately, the goal is to use such observations to improve the mechanistic linkages between aerosol sources and precipitation processes to produce more accurate predictive weather forecast models and improve water resource management.
Screened clear-sky irradiances and aerosol optical depth (AOD), for solar zenith angles <= 65 degrees, are used to estimate clear-sky diffuse irradiances.
Clear-sky diffuse estimates are used to derive quantitative estimates of aerosol radiative effects, represented as the aerosol diffuse irradiance (ADI).
Our goal here was to construct and test a cheaper, highly portable instrument alternative that could be used at remote field sites to measure total, diffuse and direct beam PAR for extended time periods without supervision.
These data are then used to carry out simulations with 11 SCM and two cloud-resolving models (CRM).
The ensemble is further used to investigate cloud variables and precipitation and identifies differences between CRM and SCM particularly for relationships involving ice.
Observations from the US Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program are used to evaluate the ability of the NASA GISS ModelE global climate model in reproducing observed interactions between aerosols and clouds.
Additionally, parameterizations for effective radius commonly used in models were tested using ARM observations, and there was no clear superior parameterization for the cases reviewed here.
Cloud-resolving model simulations of convection near Darwin, Australia, in weak wind shear environments of different humidities are used to characterize mesoscale organization processes and to provide parameterization guidance.
To drastically reduce the cost of the instrument, a different approach is used compared to traditional pulsed radars: instead of transmitting a large amount of energy for a very short time period (as a pulse), a lower amount of energy is transmitted continuously.
Ground-based high temporal and vertical resolution datasets from observations during 2002-07 at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) tropical western Pacific (TWP) site on Manus Island are used to examine the characteristics of clouds and rainfall associated with the active phase of the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) passing over Manus.
Radar and sounding data collected during the Dynamics of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (DYNAMO), the Cooperative Indian Ocean Experiment on Intraseasonal Variability in the Year 2011 (CINDY2011), and the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Madden-Julian Oscillation Investigation Experiment (AMIE) field campaigns in the equatorial Indian Ocean to study the initiation of the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) are used to examine the precipitation, cloud, and moisture characteristics during the MJO and convectively coupled Kelvin waves (KWs).
A forward operator for radar reflectivity (ZmVar) is described and used for the comparison of the ECMWF global numerical weather prediction model short-range forecasts with radar data from CloudSat.
From 6 to 31 July, radar reflectivity fields combined with brightness temperatures were used to classify the type of convection observed each day within a 50 km radius of the MIT radar location.
Detailed measurements of ice crystals in cirrus clouds were used to compare with results from the Community Atmospheric Model Version 5 (CAM5) global climate model.
Compared to observations, in general, SBM gives better simulations of precipitation and vertical velocity of convective cores than MOR and MY2 and therefore will be used for analysis of scale dependence of eddy transport in Part 2.
Comprehensive, ground-based observations from the US Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurements program Southern Great Plains site are used to study the variability of turbulence forcings and cloud-scale turbulence structures in a continental stratocumulus cloud.
The configuration of WRF-Chem used in this study is shown to reproduce the overall synoptic conditions, thermally driven circulations, and boundary layer structure observed in region that controls the transport and mixing of trace gases and aerosols.
In this regard, the combined CalNex and CARES data sets are an ideal test bed that can be used to evaluate aerosol models in great detail and develop improved treatments for aerosol processes.
The single-column model (SCM) of the Community Atmospheric Model version 5 is used to examine the impact of the grid-scale and subgrid-scale dynamic components on simulated precipitation and cloud fields associated with a mesoscale convective system.
With this dataset the full spectrum of tropical convective clouds during DYNAMO/AMIE can be reliably constructed and, together with complimentary radiosonde data, it can be used to study the role of shallow and congestus clouds in the initiation of the MJO.
Here we use remote sensing from spaceborne cloud radar to quantify that idea.
CloudSat is used to show the global variation of the importance of snow in the precipitation process.
By using an adaption of the ensemble Kalman filter, radiances are used to constrain the optical properties of the clouds using a forwardmodel that employs full 3-D radiative transfer while also providing full error statistics given the uncertainty in the observations.
Data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement site in Alaska and from the CloudSat/Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) satellite missions are used to evaluate the model parameterizations.
Data from four sites (2004-2008) that are part of the United States Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation MeasurementSouthern Great Plains network are used in this study.
For this purpose, we use high spectral resolution nadir radiances around 6400 cm(-1) (1.
Single column model simulations using the UK Met Office Unified Model, as used in the Australian Community Climate Earth System Simulator, are presented for the Tropical Warm Pool-International Cloud Experiment (TWP-ICE) field study.
The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Data Integrator (ADI) is a framework designed to streamline the development of scientific algorithms that analyze, and models that use time-series NetCDF data.
The potential use of continental fair-weather shallow cumuli as a way to retrieve the daily surface evaporative fraction over land is evaluated in convective conditions.
We suggest that the use of satellite observations of shallow cumuli can help constrain the retrieval of the surface evaporative fraction within a data assimilation scheme/reanalysis.
A one-dimensional radiative transfer model known as the Rapid Radiative Transfer Model was used to compute the radiative fluxes within the STBL.
Data from the deployment of Atmospheric Radiation Measurements (ARM)'s Mobile Facility at the island of Graciosa in the Azores is used to study the vertical velocity structure of these clouds.
The surface fluxes as reported by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasting (ECMWF) analysis model were used to characterize the dynamic structure of the BL.
Data from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) observational site previously operating at Manus Island, Papua New Guinea, and data collected during the deployment of ARM Mobile Facility at the island of Graciosa, in the Azores, were used in this study.
Some 36 years following its creation, the Deardorff 1980 (D80) subgrid turbulence model is perhaps still the most ubiquitous scheme used in large-eddy simulation (LES) studies of atmospheric boundary-layer flows.
The first studied case exhibited a dryline passage during the simulation window, and the second studied case was used to examine the CBL in a post-cold-frontal environment.
Measurements from 12 ground-based stations of the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON) are used as a reference in this study.
In demonstrating the Aerosol Cloud Interaction, we use multiple approaches.
An optimization procedure based on dynamic programming was then used to generate day-ahead fly/no-fly decisions for research flights over the SGP site.
Bulk microphysical schemes use the capacitance model for ice vapor growth in combination with mass size relationships to determine the evolution of ice water content (IWC) and ice particle maximum dimension in time.
It is common for cloud microphysical models to use a single axis length to characterize ice crystals.
These methods use either the diameter of an equivalent sphere or mass size equations in conjunction with the capacitance model to close the equations for ice vapor diffusion.
In this paper, we used the theory of digital photogrammetry and remote sensing technology to establish a geometric photography model (GPM) that can simultaneously determine CTHs and cloud movement speed (CMS) by introducing the CMS into the collinearity equation of photogrammetry.
Two high-sensitivity ozone chemiluminescence instruments were used to accurately define the remaining sub-ppbv ozone levels during ODEs.
The technique employed herein can be used as a basis for tuning and modifying convective parameterization schemes.
Microphysical measurements from 10 aircraft field programs, spanning latitudes from the Arctic to the tropics and temperatures from -86 to 0C, are used to develop relationships between the IWC and volume extinction coefficient s in visible wavelengths.
Particle size distributions (PSDs) and direct IWC measurements, together with evaluations of the ice particle shapes and comparisons with semidirect extinction measurements, are used in this analysis.
These relationships can be used to derive IWC and De from and are developed for use in climate models to derive from prognosed values of IWC and specified PSD properties.
The effects of subgrid cloud variability on grid-average microphysical rates and radiative fluxes are examined by use of long-term retrieval products at the Tropical West Pacific, Southern Great Plains, and North Slope of Alaska sites of the Department of Energy's Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program.
Four commonly used distribution functions, the truncated Gaussian, Gamma, lognormal, and Weibull distributions, are constrained to have the same mean and standard deviation as observed cloud liquid water content.
The probability density functions are then used to upscale relevant physical processes to obtain grid-average process rates.
Observations of how cloud properties vary with environmental conditions can help evaluate some parameterizations used in models.
To assess the applicability of 2DC data obtained without anti-shatter tips previously used in parameterization schemes for numerical models and remote sensing retrievals, the impacts of artifacts on bulk microphysical and scattering properties were examined by quantifying differences between such properties derived from 2DCs with standard and anti-shatter tips, and with and without the use of shatter detection algorithms using the ISDAC and IDEAS-2011 data.
Because smaller crystals, whose concentrations are uncertain, make marginal contributions to higher order moments, the use of higher moments for evaluating model fields is suggested.
Space-borne active instruments, providing a vertically resolved characterization of clouds, promise a new dimension of information to be used in numerical weather prediction systems.
Using currently available observations from CloudSat and CALIPSO, a technique combining one-dimensional variational (1D-Var) assimilation with four-dimensional variational (4D-Var) data assimilation has been used to study the impact of cloud-related observations on analyses and subsequent forecasts.
Temperature and specific humidity vertical profiles retrieved from 1D-Var using observations of cloud radar reflectivity and lidar backscatter, either separately or in combination, were used as pseudo-observations in the 4D-Var system.
This manuscript provides details on the instrumentation used as part of the sounding array, the data processing activities including quality checks and humidity bias corrections and an analysis of the impacts of bias correction and algorithm assumptions on the determination of convective levels and indices.
In addition, the impact of including the humidity corrections and quality controls on the thermodynamic profiles that are used in the derivation of a large-scale model forcing data set are investigated.
In this study, global land surface measurements were comprehensively collected for use in the validation of the CERES net radiation (Rn) product on a daily (340 sites) and a monthly (260 sites) basis, respectively.
Following the validation, the monthly CERES Rn product, from March 2000 to July 2014, was used for a further analysis.
In addition, two hot spot regions, the southern Great Plains and south-central Africa, were then selected for use in determining the driving factors or attribution of the Rn variation.
Data from a northern and a southern sounding array (NSA and SSA, respectively) have been used to investigate the apparent heat sources and sinks (Q1 and Q2) and radiative heating rates QR throughout the life cycles of the two MJO events.
For this, a large data set obtained by MPL systems operating at 532 nm during the 4 year period 2007-2010 was used to derive vertical profiles of AOD (z) by combining the corresponding AOD data as an input from an independent measurement using nearly colocated multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer (MFRSR) systems at five different U.
Therefore, amount of data used in this study is constrained by the availability of the MFRSR data.
The Doppler velocity measurements are used to detect gravity waves (GW), whose correlation with high cloud macrophysical properties is investigated.
Ground-based 35 GHz profiling Doppler cloud radar observations of ice clouds were used to derive the power law relation between Doppler velocity V-d and radar reflectivity Z (V-d = aZ(b)).
Principal component analysis was used to determine the modes of the profiles that explain most of the observed variance in the observations.
Furthermore, three commonly used microphysical relations related to bulk quantities were used to determine values of a and b.
The presented analysis of the height evolution of the radar Doppler spectra is a state-of-the-art retrieval with profiling cloud radars in SLW layers beyond the traditional use of spectral moments.
In the SLW layer, the identified liquid peak is used as an air motion tracer to correct the Doppler spectra for vertical air motion and the ice peak is used to study the radar profiles of rimed particles.
Observational data is used from three A-Train satellites, Aqua, CloudSat, and the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO); data derived from GPS signals intercepted by microsatellites of the Constellation Observing System for Meteorology, Ionosphere, and Climate (COSMIC); and the container-ship-based Marine Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment Cloud System Study/Working Group on Numerical Experimentation (GCSS/WGNE) Pacific Cross-Section Intercomparison (GPCI) Investigation of Clouds (MAGIC) campaign.
We use radiosonde data from the ship-based Marine ARM GPCI Investigation of Clouds (MAGIC) campaign in the northeast Pacific to validate temperature and moisture profiles from the satellite-based Atmospheric Infrared Sounder (AIRS) instrument and from European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) ERA-Interim reanalysis data.
For this case study, data from a surface flux station, radiosondes, cloud camera, cloud radar, wind lidar, water vapour differential absorption lidar, and microwave profiler were used to investigate turbulence characteristics in cloud-free and cloud-topped convective boundary layers (CBLs).
The frequently-used aerosol concentration was used to calculate the CBL height, zi.
The case studies demonstrated that only the combined use of different monitoring systems allowed for the recording of the entire structure of the convective cells and that synergetic measurements in cloud-topped CBLs were indispensable to capture the latters' turbulent characteristics.
To illustrate the performance of our retrieval, we use as input measurements of spectral atmospheric transmission from the Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR).
Next, actual measurements are used to evaluate our approach.
Our framework is developed emphasizing the explicit use of chemical composition data for estimating the complex refractive index (RI) of particles, and thus obtaining improved ambient size spectra derived from Optical Particle Counter (OPC) measurements.
We use combined multi-year measurements from the surface and space for assessing the spatial and temporal distribution of aerosol properties within a large (~400400 km) region centered on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, along the East Coast of the United States.
Although large-eddy simulations are a promising means of elucidating microphysics-turbulence relationships, the use of sophisticated microphysical schemes complicates analysis of their results.
Additional tests are performed to evaluate the sensitivity of the results to three main parameters of the scheme: the snow and ice size distribution intercept parameters and the exponent appearing in the temperature-dependent phase-partition function, which is used to diagnose cloud condensate amounts.
Fourteen years (1997-2010) of observations from the Millimeter Cloud Radar (MMCR), Micropulse Lidar (MPL), and Belfort/Vaisala Ceilometers are used to understand how instrument selection and sampling impacts estimates of Cloud Fraction (CF) at this location.
Although all instruments should be used in combination for the best estimates of CF, instrument downtime limits available samples and increases observational errors, demanding that users make sacrifices when calculating CF at longer intervals relevant to climate studies.
As cloud occurrence is partially controlled by the large-scale atmospheric environment, this knowledge is used to reduce uncertainties in the instrument record.
With use of the SOMs, the average uncertainty in monthly CF is reduced in half from the values calculated in Kennedy et al.
Fourteen years (1997-2010) of observations from the Millimeter Cloud Radar (MMCR), Micropulse Lidar (MPL), and Belfort/Vaisala Ceilometers are used to understand how instrument selection and sampling impacts estimates of Cloud Fraction (CF) at this location.
Although all instruments should be used in combination for the best estimates of CF, instrument downtime limits available samples and increases observational errors, demanding that users make sacrifices when calculating CF at longer intervals relevant to climate studies.
Parcel model simulations are used to illustrate the general behavior of various nucleation properties under various conditions, for justifications of the further key analytical sim-plifications, and for verification of the resulting parameterization.
The crystal concentration is analytically expressed as a function of time and can be used for parameterization of homogeneous ice nucleation both in the models with small time steps and for substep parameterization in the models with large time steps.
Microwave radiometers (MWR) are commonly used to quantify the amount of supercooled liquid water (SLW) in clouds; however, the accuracy of the SLW retrievals is limited by the poor knowledge of the SLW dielectric properties at microwave frequencies.
Findings in earlier published studies were used to select one specific model as a reference model for alpha(L) at 90 GHz; together with the observed opacity ratios, the temperature dependence of alpha(L) at 31.
We use an optical microscopy setup to identify the ice nuclei (IN) active in immersion freezing (IMF) and deposition ice nucleation within a large population of particles collected on a substrate from an ambient environment in central California dominated by urban and marine aerosols.
In the future, information about the atmospheric cloud state will be used in a closed-loop process to optimize the selection of the SACR scan strategy.
In the future, information about the atmospheric cloud state will be used in a closed-loop process to optimize the selection of the SACR scan strategy.
An unfolding algorithm that makes use of a first guess for the true Doppler velocity using horizontal wind measurements from the nearest sounding is described.
The retrieved horizontal wind profile can be used to adaptively configure SACR scan strategies that depend on wind direction.
An unfolding algorithm that makes use of a first guess for the true Doppler velocity using horizontal wind measurements from the nearest sounding is described.
The retrieved horizontal wind profile can be used to adaptively configure SACR scan strategies that depend on wind direction.
In particular, the first three moments of the recorded cloud radar Doppler spectra, the radar reflectivity, mean Doppler velocity, and spectrum width, are often used to retrieve cloud microphysical and dynamical properties.
A forward model that emulates observed radar Doppler spectra is constructed and used to investigate these relationships.
The novel use of the skewness of the radar Doppler spectrum as an early qualitative predictor of drizzle onset in clouds is introduced.
The evolution of the Doppler spectra moments is consistent with the onset and growth of drizzle particles and can be used to assist modeling studies of drizzle onset and growth.
Time-height radar observations are used to exhibit the coherency of the Doppler spectra shape parameters and demonstrate their potential to improve the interpretation and use of radar observations.
In addition, a simplified microphysical approach to modeling the vertical evolution of the drizzle particle size distribution in warm stratiform clouds is described and used to analyze the observations.
The microphysical model is used as input to a radar Doppler spectrum forward model, and synthetic radar Doppler spectra moments are generated.
Infrared [High Resolution Infrared Radiation Sounder (HIRS)-12] and microwave [Advanced Microwave Sounding Unit (AMSU)-18] measurements from the NOAA-17 satellite were used for this purpose.
The Atmospheric Radiative Transfer Simulator (ARTS) was used to simulate the satellite radiances.
Only Vaisala RS92 radiosonde sensors were used and an empirical correction (EC) was applied to the radiosonde measurements.
The impact of 8-day-averaged data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor-namely, the 1-km leaf area index, absorbed photosynthetic radiation, and land-use data-is investigated for use in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model for regional weather prediction.
The six model experiments were statistically analyzed and showed some degree of improvement in surface latent heat flux and sensible heat flux, as well as surface temperature and moisture, after land use, leaf area index, and green vegetation fraction data were replaced by remotely sensed data.
Geological Survey land-use and leaf area index inputs.
The impact of 8-day-averaged data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor-namely, the 1-km leaf area index, absorbed photosynthetic radiation, and land-use data-is investigated for use in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model for regional weather prediction.
The six model experiments were statistically analyzed and showed some degree of improvement in surface latent heat flux and sensible heat flux, as well as surface temperature and moisture, after land use, leaf area index, and green vegetation fraction data were replaced by remotely sensed data.
Geological Survey land-use and leaf area index inputs.
This deficiency has a major impact on stratiform cloud simulations but has little impact on convective case studies because aerosol is currently not used by CAM5 convective schemes and convective cases are typically longer in duration (so initialization is less important).
The model output at the surface is used to construct a scale-dependent parameterization of (R) as a function of (R) and that can bereadily implemented into large-scale numerical models.
Last, it is shown how this parameterization can be used to assist in constraining parameters that are often used to describe the surface rain-rate distribution.
The primary motivation has been to design a land model for use in the System for Atmospheric Modeling (SAM) cloud-resolving model to study land-atmosphere interactions with a sufficient level of realism.
The root-mean-square error (RMSE) and standard deviation (STD) of the GOES-13 sounder TPW are consistently reduced from those of the GFS forecast no matter which measurements are used as the truth.
The root-mean-square error (RMSE) and standard deviation (STD) of the GOES-13 sounder TPW are consistently reduced from those of the GFS forecast no matter which measurements are used as the truth.
The Community Gridpoint Statistical Interpolation system is implemented in a multiscale data assimilation (MS-DA) framework that is used within the Weather Research and Forecasting model at a cloud-resolving resolution of 2km.
For enhanced applications, the fine-resolution fields are used to characterize the contribution of subgrid variability to the large-scale forcing and to derive hydrometeor forcing, which are presented in companion papers.
Ground-based high temporal and vertical resolution datasets from observations during 2002-07 at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) tropical western Pacific (TWP) site on Manus Island are used to examine the characteristics of clouds and rainfall associated with the active phase of the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO) passing over Manus.
A Bayesian optimal estimation (OE) retrieval technique was used to retreive aerosol optical depth (AOD), aerosol single scattering albedo (SSA), and an asymmetry factor (g) at seven ultraviolet wavelengths, along with total column ozone (TOC), from the measurements of the UltraViolet Multifilter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (UV-MFRSR) deployed at the Southern Great Plains (SGP) site during March through November in 2009.
The OE technique specifies appropriate error covariance matrices and optimizes a forward model (Tropospheric ultraviolet radiative transfer model, TUV), and thus provides a supplemental method for use across the network of the Department of Agriculture UV-B Monitoring and Research Program (USDA UVMRP) for the retrieval of aerosol properties and TOC with reasonable accuracy in the UV spectral range under various atmospheric conditions.
This study takes advantage of the long-term observations of surface fluxes collected at the Southern Great Plains site by the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program to evaluate the six surface flux parameterization schemes commonly used in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model and three U.
Further diagnostic analysis reveals that in addition to the parameterization schemes themselves, the discrepancies between observed and parameterized sensible and latent heat fluxes may stem from inadequate use of input variables such as surface temperature, moisture availability, and roughness length.
This study takes advantage of the long-term observations of surface fluxes collected at the Southern Great Plains site by the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement program to evaluate the six surface flux parameterization schemes commonly used in the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model and three U.
Further diagnostic analysis reveals that in addition to the parameterization schemes themselves, the discrepancies between observed and parameterized sensible and latent heat fluxes may stem from inadequate use of input variables such as surface temperature, moisture availability, and roughness length.
The correlation is significantly improved if aerosol index (AI) is used together with AOD.
If RH exceeds 75 %, the relationship where AOD is used as a proxy for CCN becomes invalid, whereas a tight sigma(sp)-CCN relationship exists for dry particles.
It may thus be used as a constraint to reduce uncertainties in the relationship.
Ground-based S-band and Ka-band radars were used to examine the observational capability of the prototype.
A multiplatform data set from the Clouds, Aerosol, and Precipitation in the Marine Boundary Layer (MBL) Graciosa, Azores, 2009-2010 field campaign was used to investigate how continental aerosols can influence MBL cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) number concentration (NCCN).
A multiplatform data set from the Clouds, Aerosol, and Precipitation in the Marine Boundary Layer (MBL) Graciosa, Azores, 2009-2010 field campaign was used to investigate how continental aerosols can influence MBL cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) number concentration (N-CCN).
Three commonly used parameterizations are also tested on the individual cloud scale.
Three commonly used parameterizations are also tested on the individual cloud scale.
Using the Gaussian-shape property of cloud Doppler spectra, the cloud-only radar Doppler spectrum is estimated and used to separate the cloud and drizzle contributions.
Once separated, the cloud spectral peak can be used to retrieve vertical air motion and eddy dissipation rates, while the drizzle peak can be used to estimate the three radar moments of the drizzle particle size distribution.
Budget diagnostic terms for transport, dry deposition, emissions, condensational growth, nucleation, and coagulation of aerosol particles have been added to the model and are used to analyze the differences in how the new particle formation parameterizations influence the evolving aerosol size distribution.
, GOES)/Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite retrievals of the Cloud Droplet Effective Radius (Reff) showed significant biases especially at larger solar zenith angles, further motivating the use of ground based remote sensing approaches.
An iterative approach combining the simultaneous observations from MFRSR and MWR are used to retrieve the COD and Reff for thick cloud cases and are extensively validated using the DoE Southern Great Plains (SGP) retrievals as well as regression based parameterized model retrievals.
We use two series of eight-month UHF radar observations collected during the dry and wet seasons of AMMA field campaign.
Then, special attention is paid to the first 200 m agl, to study the possibility to use the sub-jet wind as a source of energy.
This study assesses the quality of the two frequently used liquid nitrogen and tipping curve calibrations by performing a detailed error propagation study, which exploits the unique atmospheric conditions of RHUBC-II.
It is suggested that an SLDR difference between slant and zenith radar pointing can be used for prospective remote sensing methods of inferring particle aspect ratio from cloud radar depolarization measurements.
Expected aspect ratio retrieval uncertainties within the spheroidal shape model and the use of different types of radar depolarization ratio measurements are discussed.
A difference in measured SLDR values between zenith and slant viewing can be used to infer predominant aspect ratios of planar hydrometeors if an assumption about their bulk density is made.
Airborne microphysical data from a cloud particle imager, optical array probes, and forward scattering probes are used to construct vertical profiles of the size and shape distributions of ice crystals.
Cloud radar measurements of cloud-base and cloud-top heights are used to define cloud types to examine the effect of cloud type on the surface CRE.
The differing optical characteristics of CPIs used in M-PACE and ISDAC had no effect on derived a provided that D-max.
This study hence suggests that area ratio can be used to identify the phase of particles with 35 < D-max < 60 mu m and questions the assumption used in previous studies that all particles in this size range are supercooled droplets.
Observations from a new radar suite surrounding the facility are used to characterize the evolving statistical behavior of the precipitating cloud system.
These measurements were compared to predictions in four global climate models (GCMs) used in the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report (IPCC AR4).
The use of reflective surfaces offers one low-cost solution for reducing solar loading to urban environments and the Earth that should be considered as part of sustainable urban design.
We use a previously tested column radiative transfer model to estimate the energy per unit area reflected to space from increasing the surface albedo at six cities within India.
The model is used to characterize radiative transfer each day over five years (2008-2012) based on mid-day satellite retrievals of MODIS aerosol depth, cloud water path, and average surface albedo and MERRA atmospheric profiles of temperature and composition.
Comprehensive, ground-based observations from the US Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurements program Southern Great Plains site are used to study the variability of turbulence forcings and cloud-scale turbulence structures in a continental stratocumulus cloud.
During the 16-h observation period used in this study the cloud-base and cloud-top heights evolve with time and changes in liquid water path observed by the radiometer are consistent with variations in cloud depth.
The turbulence characteristics and variability defined in this study can be used to evaluate the time evolution of turbulence structures in large eddy simulation forced by surface and cloud-top radiative forcings.
Because of the large differences between different radiosonde sensors, it is essential for UTH studies to only use the data measured using a single type of sensor at any given station.
Ground-based remote-sensing observations from Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) and Cloud-Net sites are used to evaluate the clouds predicted by a weather forecasting and climate model.
Importantly, this methodology will be of great use when attempting to develop a cloud parametrization scheme, as it provides a clearer picture of the current deficiencies in the predicted clouds.
A cloud system-resolving model (the Weather Research and Forecasting model) with 1 km horizontal grid spacing is used to investigate the response of an idealized supercell storm to increased cloud droplet concentrations associated with polluted conditions.
However, there is sensitivity in the magnitude, and in some cases sign, of the storm response to polluted conditions with small perturbations in the temperature of the thermal used to initiate convection (less than +/- 0.
A cloud-system-resolving model is used to investigate the effects of localized heating/cooling perturbations on tropical deep convection, in the context of the aerosol invigoration effect.
Test runs in which only nighttime radiosonde measurements are used for calibration show that the lidar exhibits a daytime warm bias that is correlated with the strength of the solar background signal.
Solid preliminary findings an valuable data sets have been used since that to promote a true climatology of marine cloud structure over the north Atlantic.
The covariance function is used in conjunction with the Gaussian random sphere geometry to generate threedimensional model ice particles for ray-optics simulations at 550-nm wavelength.
X-band hemispheric range height indicator scans used in conjunction with Ka-band radar and lidar measurements revealed prolonged periods dominated by vapor depositional, riming, and/or aggregation growth.
In contrast to previous intercomparison studies, all models here use the same ice particle properties (i.
A clear separation in LWP and IWP predicted by models with bin and bulk microphysical treatments is documented and attributed primarily to the assumed shape of ice PSD used in bulk schemes.
Sensitivity tests indicate LWP and IWP are much closer to the bin model simulations when a modified shape factor which is similar to that predicted by bin model simulation is used in bulk scheme.
In previous observational studies showing highly enhanced absorption compared to models, the slope of a linear fit to dTOA/dT (the derivative of TOA albedo with respect to transmittance) was used to quantify cloud SW absorption, while nonlineanty of dTOA/dT was interpreted as a sign of sampling issues.
C-band polarimetric radar measurements spanning two wet seasons are used to study the effects of the large-scale environment on the statistical properties of stratiform and convective rainfall around Darwin, Australia.
C-band polarimetric radar measurements spanning two wet seasons are used to perform a critical evaluation of two algorithms for the classification of stratiform and convective precipitation.
Thus, to improve the statistics of the convective class, three modified equations of the peakedness criterion used in the radar-based algorithm are proposed to decrease the number of misclassified points.
The comparisons make use of the extensive measurements made within the U.
While it was shown that this was in part due to the analysis used to drive these models, the LAMs were also driven by this analysis and did not have the problem to the same extent.
While it was shown that this was in part due to the analysis used to drive these models, the LAMs were also driven by this analysis and did not have the problem to the same extent.
While it was shown that this was in part due to the analysis used to drive these models, the LAMs were also driven by this analysis and did not have the problem to the same extent.
In addition, many retrievals assume the observation and retrieval error statistics have Gaussian distributions and use least squares minimization techniques to find a solution.
Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods can be used to produce a robust estimate of the probability distribution of a retrieved quantity that is nonlinearly related to the measurements and that has non-Gaussian error statistics.
In this work, an MCMC algorithm is used to explore the error characteristics of cloud property retrievals from surface-based W-band radar and low-frequency microwave radiometer observations for a case of orographic snowfall.
Doppler radar measurements at different frequencies (50 and 2835 MHz) are used to characterize the terminal fall speed of hydrometeors and the vertical air motion in tropical ice clouds and to evaluate statistical methods for retrieving these two parameters using a single vertically pointing cloud radar.
This error magnitude is compatible with the use of such retrieved terminal fall speeds for the retrieval of microphysical properties.
Observations of 38 cold pools made at Niamey, Niger, during the 2006 African Monsoon Multidisciplinary Analysis (AMMA) campaign (1 June-30 September 2006), are used to generate a seasonal characterization of cold pool properties by quantifying related changes in surface meteorological variables.
A novel diagnostic used to quantify how consistent observed cold pool temperatures are with saturated or unsaturated descent from midlevels [fractional evaporational energy deficit (FEED)] shows that early season cold pools are consistent with less saturated descents.
We use new techniques to account for the spatial and temporal inhomogeneity of the sparse balloon profiles and to calculate stratospheric mean ages of air more consistently from the observations with the idealized model.
In recent years, the interest in using solar energy as a major contributor to renewable energy applications has increased, and the focus to optimize the use of electrical energy based on demand and resources from different locations has strengthened.
In conjunction with Solar Position Algorithm, the angular distance between the Sun and the Moon is used to develop a method to instantaneously monitor the partial or total solar eclipse occurrence for solar energy applications.
This method can be used in many other applications for observers of the Sun and the Moon positions for applications limited to the stated uncertainty.
The method might be used in developing calibration methods to address the mismatch between the broadband ACR and shortwave radiometers, and the lack of a daytime reference for pyrgeometer calibration.
We used the described method to measure the irradiance from sunrise to sunset; the irradiance varied from approximately 1 W m(-2) to 16 W m(-2) with an estimated uncertainty of 1.
We investigate the cumulative added value of assimilating temperature, moisture, and wind observations in the three-dimensional non-hydrostatic Fifth-Generation Pennsylvania State University/National Center for Atmospheric Research Mesoscale Model MM5 and use these forecasts to analyze the relationship between surface forcing and planetary boundary-layer (PBL) depth.
The forecast with data assimilation verifies better against observations and is thus used to investigate the environmental conditions that govern PBL depth.
A physical emissivity model, using land surface model data as input, is used to calculate emissivity at the 10 GHz frequency, combining contributions from the underlying soil and vegetation layers, including the dielectric and roughness effects of each medium.
9 along with biases 1K or less and small RMS error and show improved agreement over the use of climatological emissivity values.
The synthesis of the emissivity and cloud resolving model input with satellite and ancillary datasets leads to creation of a unique Tb database for SGP that includes both dynamic surface and atmospheric information physically consistent with the LSM, emissivity model, and atmospheric information, for use in a Bayesian-type precipitation retrieval scheme utilizing a technique that can easily be applied to GPM as data becomes available.
A physical emissivity model, using land surface model data as input, is used to calculate emissivity at the 10 GHz frequency, combining contributions from the underlying soil and vegetation layers, including the dielectric and roughness effects of each medium.
9, biases of 1K or less, root-mean-square errors on the order of 5K, and improved agreement over the use of climatological emissivity values.
The comprehensive set of observational data now available allows an in-depth evaluation of the monsoon across those scales, especially through the use of high-frequency outputs provided by some CMIP5 models at selected sites along the AMMA transect.
The GPS network observations are used as a stable reference to assess trends in the AIRS L3 gridded PWV product for the nine year period 2003-2011.
In the mean time, the retrieved Na can be used for the assimilation of the combined CCN and updraft effects on clouds in models.
In the mean time, the retrieved N-a can be used for the assimilation of the combined CCN and updraft effects on clouds in models.
235 GHz (K-band) water vapor absorption line have been used extensively for remote sensing of water vapor in the troposphere, both the integrated amount and its profile.
This paper explores the potential to use ground-based, zenith-pointing K-band radiometer measurements along with optimized background data sets consisting of radiosonde profiles to detect dynamic changes and gradients in water vapor profiles.
These comparisons were used to estimate the Raman liquid water cross-sectional value.
As a result, caution should be used when treating RAs as truth in terms of their water and energy cycle processes.
We use high-resolution measurements from a lidar, a radar and a radiometer, which allow us to collect and compare data continuously.
We use the cloud droplet effective radius (r(e)) to represent cloud microphysical properties and an integrated value of the attenuated backscatter coefficient (ATB) below the cloud to represent the aerosol concentration.
We show that ground-based remote sensing instruments used in synergy can efficiently and continuously monitor aerosol-cloud interactions.
The new continuous PBL data set can be used to improve model parameterizations of PBL and our understanding of atmospheric transport of pollutants which affect clouds, air quality and human health.
The new continuous PBL data set can be used to improve model parameterizations of PBL and our understanding of atmospheric transport of pollutants which affect clouds, air quality and human health.
The combined algorithm is also flexible enough to use with radiosonde and atmospheric emitted radiance interferometer (AERI) data.
This asymmetry points to a transition in the source region temperature or location of the water vapour and shows the added information that HDO/H2O measurements provide when used in combination with variations in humidity.
We use a laboratory spectrum of water vapour to fit line intensity, air broadening and wavelength shift parameters.
In contrast to earlier studies, results are more sensitive to the choice of initial and boundary data (here GFS and ECMWF) than to the boundary-layer and surface schemes used or to model grid resolution.
Spaceborne radar and lidar observations from the CloudSat and CALIPSO satellites are used to compare seasonal variations in the microphysical and radiative properties of clouds over Ross Island, Antarctica, with two contrasting Arctic atmospheric observatories located in Barrow, Alaska, and Summit, Greenland.
We apply clustering analysis of the retrieved products as a case study during the TCAP summer campaign to identify variations in atmospheric composition of elevated pollution layers and demonstrate that combined total column measurements of trace gas and aerosols can be used to define different pollution layer sources, by comparing our results with trajectory analysis and in situ airborne miniSPLAT (single-particle mass spectrometer) measurements.
Airborne observations from four flights during the 2008 Indirect and Semi-Direct Aerosol Campaign (ISDAC) are used to examine some cloud-free optical, physical, and chemical properties of aerosol particles in the springtime Arctic troposphere.
The observed variability in Na may have important implications for estimating cloud microphysical properties as well as estimates of particle properties used in global climate model simulations, because averaging over large space- or time-scales may not represent real atmospheric conditions.
The observed variability in N-a may have important implications for estimating cloud microphysical properties as well as estimates of particle properties used in global climate model simulations, because averaging over large space- or time-scales may not represent real atmospheric conditions.
The total sky image (TSI) camera observations are used to determine the prior distribution.
A regression model and the active remote sensing of clouds (ARSCL) radar/lidar observations are used to determine the likelihood function.
Underflights of the CALIPSO satellite show reasonable agreement in a majority of retrieved profiles between aircraft-measured extinction at 532 nm (adjusted to ambient relative humidity) and CALIPSO-retrieved extinction, and suggest that routine aircraft profiling programs can be used to better understand and validate satellite retrieval algorithms.
Differences in annually averaged AOPs and those for individual months at the four sites are used to examine regional AOP variability.
A common physical/statistical sounding retrieval algorithm and statistical database have been applied to the aircraft, ground-based interferometer, and satellite ultra spectral radiance data in order to use the higher spatial resolution aircraft data and higher vertical resolution surface-based interferometer PBL soundings, and radiosonde profiles, to validate the satellite sounding products.
In this study, a series of idealized large-eddy simulations is used to understand the relative impact of cloudtop and subcloud-layer sources of moisture on the microphysical-radiative-dynamical feedbacks in an Arctic mixed-phase stratocumulus (AMPS) cloud system.
Moisture and moist static energy budgets are used to examine the potential impact of ice in mixed-phase clouds, specific humidity inversions coincident with temperature inversions as a source of moisture for the cloud system, and the presence of cloud liquid water above the mixed-layer top.
The underestimation of lower-level cloud fraction inmost SCMs ismainly due to the larger threshold RH used in models.
In this study, using the data from constrained variational analysis by the Atmospheric System Research program for singlecolumn models (SCM), the performance of the commonly used convective trigger functions in GCMs is evaluated based on the equitable threat score (ETS) value, a widely used forecast verification metric.
The key variables used to define these trigger functions are examined in detail.
The model is then used to calculate evapotranspiration (ET) using the estimated parameters, atmospheric forcing data (from NLDAS-2) and remotely sensed surface soil moisture (from AMSR-E) and temperature (from AMSR-E and MODIS).
In this study, an advanced temperature vegetation dryness index (ATVDI) is used to monitor soil moisture status using an improved surface temperature and a vegetation index space that is formed by the theoretical dry edge determined by the surface energy balance principle and the wet edge extracted from water surface temperature.
Therefore, the scheme can be used to determine the DSI using NWP model products or satellite data.
The sampling errors of DSI due to the use of 3-hourly or 1-hourly low frequency in radiation calculations in NWP models are evaluated using the fast scheme and ARM observational data.
Unlike traditional methods, this study applies the band model idea used in radiative transfer theory to the development of the surface radiation scheme and, importantly, includes absorption and scattering in the parametrization.
All variables used in the scheme are available in climate models or from satellite observations.
Therefore, the parametrization can be used to determine the GHI at the surface under clear-sky conditionsThe scheme is evaluated using observations obtained from three US Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) stations and three stations on the Tibetan Plateau, and the results demonstrate that the scheme is accurate.
Unlike traditional methods, this study applies the band model idea used in radiative transfer theory to the development of the surface radiation scheme and, importantly, includes absorption and scattering in the parametrization.
All variables used in the scheme are available in climate models or from satellite observations.
Therefore, the parametrization can be used to determine the GHI at the surface under clear-sky conditions The scheme is evaluated using observations obtained from three US Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) stations and three stations on the Tibetan Plateau, and the results demonstrate that the scheme is accurate.
In this study, the eddy diffusivity/mass flux (EDMF) approach is used to combine parameterizations of nonprecipitating moist convection and boundary layer turbulence.
The novel aspect of this EDMF version is the use of a probability density function (PDF) to describe the moist updraft characteristics.
In the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program, a constrained variational algorithm (1DCVA) has been used to derive large-scale forcing data over a sounding network domain with the aid of flux measurements at the surface and top of the atmosphere (TOA).
In the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM), a constrained variational algorithm (1-D constrained variational analysis (1DCVA)) has been used to derive large-scale forcing data over a sounding network domain with the aid of flux measurements at the surface and top of the atmosphere (TOA).
These results are used to evaluate the diabatic heating fields in the available products such as Rapid Update Cycle, ERA-Interim, National Centers for Environmental Prediction Climate Forecast System Reanalysis, Modern-Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications, Japanese 55-year Reanalysis, and North American Regional Reanalysis.
A regional high-resolution model was used to conduct a series of real-time forecasts during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) in 2011 over the Southern Great Plains.
AbstractThis study extends the Heated Condensation Framework (HCF) presented in Tawfik and Dirmeyer (2014) to include variables for describing the convective background state of the atmosphere used to quantify the contribution of the atmosphere to convective initiation within the context of land-atmosphere coupling.
, lidar ratios) can be obtained are used to infer the lidar ratios for the regions where no such estimate can be made.
When neither directly retrieved nor an inferred value can be determined, a climatological lidar ratio is used.
This best-estimate approach results in the need to use climatological lidar ratios for less than about 5% of features, except for thin cirrus at the ARM tropical western Pacific Darwin site, where above 12 km, about 20% of clouds use a climatological lidar ratio.
Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program and satellite-based A-train are used to compute cloud radiative forcing profiles over the ARM Darwin, Australia site.
The approach of FEX is to use multiple quantities scattering ratios derived using elastic and nitrogen channel signals from two fields of view, the scattering ratio derived using only the elastic channel, and the total volume depolarization ratioto identify features using range-dependent detection thresholds.
The use of multiple quantities provides complementary depictions of cloud and aerosol locations and allows for consistency checks to improve the accuracy of the feature mask.
In this sense, predictive capability of f (RH) for use in climate models would be enhanced if other aerosol parameters could be used as proxies to estimate hygroscopic growth.
Here we use estimates of Last Glacial Maximum sea surface temperature in the Indo-Pacific warm pool based on the clumped isotope palaeotemperature proxy in planktonic foraminifera and coccoliths, along with radiative-convective calculations of vertical atmospheric thermal structure, to assess the controls on tropical glacier snowlines.
Here we use satellite retrievals and surface observations of atmospheric methane to suggest that U.
We use 2009-2011 space-borne methane observations from the Greenhouse Gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT) to estimate global and North American methane emissions with 4A degrees x 5A degrees and up to 50 km x 50 km spatial resolution, respectively.
High temporal and vertical resolution water vapor measurements by Raman and differential absorption lidar systems have been used to characterize the turbulent fluctuations in the water vapor mixing ratio field in convective mixed layers.
Combinations of dual-polarization measurements at various radar frequencies and elevation angles together with realistic scattering computations of snowflakes are compared in order to study how they can be used to characterize falling snow.
In the study, we use seven different ice crystal habits, including graupel, and different types of aggregates.
We have used fire products based on burned area (Global Fire Emissions Database version 4), satellite-observed CO columns (Infrared Atmospheric Sounding Interferometer), fire radiative power (Global Fire Assimilation System version 1), and fire hot spots (Fire Inventory from NCAR version 1), and found an increase in biomass burning emissions in 2010 compared to 2011 of 0.
Simulations with three commonly used bulk microphysics parameterizations with varying complexity have been compared against satellite-retrieved cloud properties.
Despite different forcing methodologies, similar precipitation microphysics errors appear in CRMs and LAMs with differences that depend on the details of the bulk microphysics scheme used.
Cloud radar Doppler velocity spectra, lidar backscattering coefficients and depolarization ratios, and aircraft in situ measurements are used to investigate microphysical processes occurring in a case of multilayered, mixed-phase clouds over the North Slope of Alaska.
The project used a variety of radars to study the spatial and temporal variability of rainfall and the associated latent heat release during the storm.
Gravity wave ray-tracing techniques were then used to estimate the wave energy flux penetrating to heights near 90 km, where the results were compared with direct measurements made with a meteor wind radar.
This comparison is used to calibrate the momentum fluxes derived from the model and the ray-tracing results using an iterative technique.
Sun photometric measurements are an important method of measuring the column amount and optical properties of atmospheric aerosols and are frequently used to better understand the impact of aerosols on the Earth's radiative budget.
This paper assesses two calibration techniques used for multifilter rotating shadowband radiometers (MFRSRs) and presents the results obtained at Long Island, NY, during the July 2011 Aerosol Life Cycle Intensive Operational Period (IOP) campaign.
Based on in situ measurements from the Routine AAF (Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Aerial Facility) CLOWD (Clouds with Low Optical Water Depth) Optical Radiative Observations (RACORO) field campaign and remote sensing observations, the cases are designed with a modular configuration to simplify use in large-eddy simulations (LES) and single-column models.
6W/m2 with the LUT method, compared to the use of local noon albedo.
Then the Nevzorov-measured ice water contents (IWCs) at maximum diameter D-max<4000 mu m are used as the best estimation to determine a new mass-dimensional relationship.
Instruments used for this study include profiling Ka band radars, a depolarization backscatter profiling lidar, a scanning X band radar, a microwave radiometer, a ceilometer, surface meteorological probes, and radiosondes.
A regional high-resolution model was used to conduct a series of real-time forecasts during the Midlatitude Continental Convective Clouds Experiment (MC3E) in 2011 over the Southern Great Plains.
Carbonyl sulfide (COS) is a reduced sulfur gas that is taken up irreversibly in plant leaves proportionally with CO2, allowing its potential use as a tracer for gross primary production.
The second part of this study used the retrieved DSD parameters to decompose reflectivity and liquid water content (LWC) into two terms, one representing number concentration and the other representing DSD shape.
Soil moisture remote sensing could be used along with CO2 concentration measurements to further constrain atmospheric transport model inversions.
When used in the default CESM1 with the finite-volume dynamic core where a constant liquid inhomogeneity parameter was assumed, it reduces the cloud inhomogeneity in high latitudes and increases it in low latitudes.
Surface-based measurements of shortwave (SW) radiative fluxes contain valuable information on cloud properties, but have not been fully used to infer those properties.
To examine the existing techniques of cloud property retrieval and explore the underlying reasons for uncertainties, a newly developed approach that allows for simultaneous retrievals of cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements, XL2013, is used to derive cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site.
In addition, the obtained water budgets quantitatively describe the transport of water between convective, stratiform, and anvil regions as well as water sources/sinks from microphysical processes, providing information that can be used to help determine parameters in the convective and cloud parameterizations in general circulation models (GCMs).
These findings demonstrate that if variability in cloud fraction across the scenes used for composite aerosol statistics is not considered, a sampling artifact will affect these statistics calculated as a function of distance to clouds.
Here we use the NAM-SCA model (nonhydrostatic anelastic model with segmentally constant approximation), which is midway between a cloud-resolving model and convection parameterization.
, with truncation via a spatiotemporal adaptive mesh) that facilitates its potential use as a parameterization.
The data collected were used to determine the properties of the atmosphere and clouds for integration into the MODerate resolution atmospheric TRANsmission (MODTRAN) model to assess the upwelling and downwelling atmospheric flux of the atmosphere.
The use of satellite cloud climatological data based on the complete system of polar orbiting and geostationary satellite measurements is one approach to improve the results from applying this technique for the cloudy situations.
Colocated instruments, such as the MultiFilter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR), atmospheric emitted radiance interferometer (AERI), and Microwave Radiometer (MWR), are used to evaluate our retrieval results.
nm are used for aerosol SSA retrievals with the constraint of retrieved Angstrom coefficient.
The data policy of the campaign encourages the broad research community to use the field observations to advance the MJO study.
The objective of this study is to investigate the quality of clouds simulated by the National Centers for Environmental Prediction global forecast system (GFS) model and to examine the causes for some systematic errors seen in the simulations through use of satellite and ground-based measurements.
To examine the existing techniques of cloud property retrieval and explore the underlying reasons for uncertainties, a newly developed approach that allows for simultaneous retrievals of cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements, XL2013, is used to derive cloud fraction and cloud albedo from ground-based shortwave broadband radiation measurements at the Department of Energy Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site.
Summertime observations for 13 yr at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site are used to study fair-weather shallow cumuli (ShCu).
In addition, the obtained water budgets quantitatively describe the transport of water between convective, stratiform, and anvil regions as well as water sources/sinks from microphysical processes, providing information that can be used to help determine parameters in the convective and cloud parameterizations in general circulation models (GCMs).
Observations from the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM) site at Manus Island in the western Pacific and (re)analysis products are used to investigate moistening by shallow cumulus clouds and by the circulation in large-scale convective events.
The pattern of ice development in stratiform mixed-phase clouds (SMCs) offers an opportunity to use cloud radar reflectivity (Ze) measurements and other cloud properties to retrieve ice number concentrations.
The Active Remote Sensing of Cloud (ARSCL) value-added product (VAP), which combines data from the 95-GHz W-band ARM Cloud Radar (WACR) and/or the 35-GHz Millimeter Microwave Cloud Radar (MMCR), is used in this study to validate the radiosonde-based cloud layer retrieval method.
In this study, we develop a long-term (10 years) radiosonde-based cloud profile product over the Southern Great Plains and along with ground-based and space-borne remote sensing products, use it to evaluate cloud layer distributions simulated by the National Centers for Environmental Prediction global forecast system (GFS) model.
As such, caution must be exercised to use any single product.
The Active Remote Sensing of Cloud (ARSCL) value-added product (VAP), which combines data from the 95-GHz W-band ARM Cloud Radar (WACR) and/or the 35-GHz Millimeter Microwave Cloud Radar (MMCR), is used in this study to validate the radiosonde-based cloud layer retrieval method.
In this study, we develop a long-term (10 years) radiosonde-based cloud profile product over the Southern Great Plains and along with ground-based and space-borne remote sensing products, use it to evaluate cloud layer distributions simulated by the National Centers for Environmental Prediction global forecast system (GFS) model.
As such, caution must be exercised to use any single product.
Summertime observations for 13 yr at the Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Southern Great Plains site are used to study fair-weather shallow cumuli (ShCu).
0 in the public version of WRF-Chem that uses a stand-alone vegetation map that differs from what is used by land surface schemes.
This improved modeling framework is used to investigate the impact of two land surface schemes, CLM4 and Noah, on BVOCs and examine the sensitivity of BVOCs to vegetation distributions in California.
A semidiscretization processing technique is first used to inhibit the impact of increasing noise with distance.
A semidiscretization processing technique is first used to inhibit the impact of increasing noise with distance.
Three heterogeneity length scales: 1, 3, and 9 km, were employed to alter land cover and land use.
A series of 48-h retrospective forecasts using a combination of three treatments of convection (KF, updated KF, and the use of no cumulus parameterization), two cloud microphysics schemes, and two types of initial condition datasets were performed over the U.
A series of 48-hour retrospective forecasts using a combination of three treatments of convection (KF, updated KF, and the use of no cumulus parameterization), two cloud microphysics schemes and two types of initial condition datasets were performed over the U.
In this study, a method of Doppler moments was developed and used to retrieve cirrus cloud microphysical properties such as the mean air vertical velocity, mass-weighted diameter, effective particle size, and ice content.
The dataset collected during the campaign are used to validate a meso-scale model using different set-ups.
In the observed data incorporation mode' (DI) the model used a single domain at 1 km horizontal resolution, with either radiosonde or aircraft data incorporated during the run.
